This is Jockel Podcast number 224 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening,
echo. Good evening. There is seldom a Mexican standoff in battle. You either win or lose.
And in many fights a commander reaches a point where he thinks he's lost. He sees only
his losses and knows only his own situation, not the enemies. The carnage surrounding
him erodes his confidence. Wellington at Waterloo fought he lost. So did easy company in the
fight on the hill up north under Desoderio. Grant summed up the feeling best at Fort Donaldson
during the Civil War. He said either side was ready to give way if the other showed a bold
front. Well, we'd certainly shown a bold front, but so had the men from China. Neary appeared
again. This time carrying a little unconscious, Chinamen. I found out later that after
I told him we needed a prisoner, he'd taken it as a personal assignment. He charged up the
hill and stormed the top unarmed. Once in the enemy position, he'd smashed this chink
on the head with his fist and hot-footed it back to me. Unfortunately, the POW died before
we got the skinny. He kept trying to pull one of the grenades off Neary's belt on the way
back and Neary had stomped him obviously a little too hard. So we got another prisoner,
but then just when we needed him most, our interpreter, Kim, decided to bug out. Speed,
saw him running down the hill. He stopped him. I go. I go, said Kim, and edge the way.
Jack didn't know what to do. He was good and ready to waste him. Instead, he leveled his
weapon and shot off Kim's hand. This persuasive little tactic or, and we bandaged up his
hand and Kim decided he liked our company after all. The word from the POW was just what
we wanted to hear. Our artillery had clobbered the enemy reinforcing unit and no one on the
hill had any fight left in him. I told Jim and the others, Jimmy and the others to round
up every gun that could walk, limp or crawl. We were going to storm the top. Twenty,
bloodied and battered raiders soon crested the hill. It surfaced was covered with enemy
dead. The Chinese defenders who hadn't been killed on position had chanced running the
gauntlet of military shot, which continued to blast the backside of the hill, judging from
the carnage on the reverse slope, few had made it. But an intact, brain gun crew was still
raising hell among our tired band. There were more casualties until Jimmy and Evans went
on the attack. They killed the crew, but paid the price. Jimmy lay like a broken breed next
to the gun. He taken a shot in the face that rip through his right eye and lower jaw.
Evans lay nearby staring at Jimmy with wide, lifeless eyes and a satisfied look on his
heavily mustacheed face. It was the look of a winner. He probably just said to Jimmy,
we got the son of a bitch before a burst of enemy fire. Most likely the last of the fight.
He didn't fullen the chest and rip the life out of him.
Neri switched on as radio to report the capture of Hill 400. Relief was en route. He was told
dispatched by a worried kernel Sloan when we went off the air.
O Sake, can you see? I thought, as in the dull light of the morning we collected our scattered
and broken fighters from the blood soaked American held hill. The inexhaustible
breakman was kneeling over Jimmy pumping life into him with a container of albumin.
We had seven killed in action. 29 wounded in action and one radar Salazar was missing.
The only two raiders who were not hit were Lipka and sovereign. The two gunners. Then machine guns
had been out of range of the frags that had depleted our ranks. It was a strange turn about.
Normally the gunners ride in the death seat. We turned the hill over to the relieving
wolf-hound unit and continued looking for Salazar. We wouldn't leave the hill without him.
At any man who could walk, joined in the search. He'd been patched up after he and Smith had
knocked out the machine gun but no one had seen him since he'd returned to the fight.
A faint moan was heard in a draw. On the steep left hand side of 400,
he was Salazar. More dead than alive. He'd been blown off the hill by a grenade and
somehow with 29 slugs or shrapnel wounds in his body. That tough text in the humbry was still
sucking air. The dock got some blood into him and we started down the hill.
We carried all our dead and the wounded who could not make it under their own steam.
Chink 82 millimeter and 120 millimeter mortar fire continued to smash in around us but it
was ignored by all. After what we'd been through, it didn't mean a thing. Colonel Sloan had
walked alone to meet us on hill 400's forward slopes. He too ignored the incoming as he went
from radar to radar helping, comforting, praising. Tears stream from his eyes and that early
morning light as he helped us down. He led us to the aid station and there I saw seven figures
all lined up each covered with a poncho. It's just a nightmare I fought.
But I didn't believe myself at all. I went to each body and pulled the sheep back off the face.
One by one I cradled those men and rocked them in my arms, crying and mumbling and damning
God because he had let me down. Now that curtain had fallen. The shock of it all came on.
Suddenly I felt empty. Every part of me ached. My mouth was dry as a beach full of sand.
Sloan helped me to my feet. He was a fine caring man and a great commander.
The medic came up, looked at my wounds and hit me with another threat of morphine.
It dulled the pain but not enough. He told me to go lie down in a litter so I could be evacuated.
But I was not about to go anywhere. The welfare of my men was not a responsibility that could be delegated
until everyone had been cared for. I'd stay right here.
And that right there was an excerpt from the book about face. By Colonel David Hackworth is
actually the first book that I covered on this podcast and it's the book where
so many of the principles that I talk about and that I utilize in leadership and life stem from.
Like the fact that the welfare of your men is something that cannot be delegated.
Or the fact that it was okay or at least normal to cry and mumble and curse God in my petty anger.
The fact that this kind of uncontrolled emotion didn't make me a lesser man.
And that to lose your men, your comrades, your friends is raw pain.
And I learned that from the book about face. I actually should say that it solidified
in my brain. And when you read something,
if you do it right, if you read it right, you take what you read and you overlay it with
what you know and you make that experience and that knowledge from what you read part of your own.
And you know when I read when I read books on this podcast, sometimes I get
hit with some emotions. And I've always managed for the most part to keep it together.
But the emotions that I feel, they're not directly from what is going on in the book.
I mean, obviously that's part of it, but it's not the story from the book. It's the memories that I have.
Because as I read, I remember.
And I find myself there again feeling that pain and that loss.
And there's a thread of human emotion that runs from whatever story I'm reading into my own story.
There's a connection. And if you trace that thread, then you can learn from it. And I learn from it.
That's what happens when you read and you'll be a story correctly when you connect
the thread of history with your own experience and your own knowledge and you make that connection.
And when you do that, you learn and you also begin to understand more.
Now after a short time after we started making this podcast,
someone sent me a message on social media. And at this point, it was pretty easy to respond and
actually follow up and take action on things that people were saying to me because it wasn't a bunch of them.
And somebody just sent me a message on social media and said,
said, there's a podcast called Margar Made. You will like it.
So I some point pulled out this podcast called Margar Made and I listened and as I listened to that voice,
I heard that voice making these connections, connections between the past and present,
connections between the emotions of people from the past and our emotions right now.
A voice that connected the emotions from from soldiers and citizens and terrorists and patriots and
mortars and mortars. The voice connected those things and the voice understood,
understood something and that voice read and then spoke and tied those threads together
and that voice came from someone named Darrell Cooper who is the voice and the mind and
the emotion behind the podcast Margar Made. And I guess through the benefit of the interwebs,
we eventually connected and Darrell just has a very good handle on wrapping these connections together
and he's here tonight to talk with us about those connections.
The story of what his life has been and then the thread connects him and us to the past and the present
and the future. Darrell, thanks for coming on, man. Thanks for having me.
So yeah, I remember somebody hitting me up and saying you got to check out this podcast and
you're opening for podcast one episode one of Margar Made. I said, oh yeah,
here it is. This guy who ever told me to listen to this was right and you actually put out that podcast.
What was it early 2015? That sounds right. Yeah, I can't remember. I know it was before I started my podcast.
I know that because I looked at it the other day to try and figure it out.
And then when I found out and the more I found out about you and kind of your background and your back story,
it's pretty fascinating in my opinion. Let's go into it, man. Let's start, let's start at the
beginning of your life. How did start? Where'd you come from?
I came from all over. I was born in Stockton, California. Stockton 209.
Right on. But I lived all over the place. I probably went to my track count and I'm up
every once in a while, but there's kind of gaps in my memory. I went to maybe 35, 36, 37,
schools, K through 12. So we were moving around all the time. I had a single mother.
We was taking care of us and we kind of had scraped and scrounge and you know, live where we could.
And at the end of the day, we always had food on the table. We always had, you know, a roof over
our heads for the most part, took care of us. But, you know, there were some close shapes there,
various times and we had to kind of bounce around wherever we could. So I've lived all over California
from the south all the way up to Eureka for a little while. I don't really remember much about that,
but a lot of times Stockton, I think I went to every school in Stockton at one point in my life.
I think I went to 11 different high school there for years.
People are like, what's causing you to go from one high school to another high school?
Just, you know, we were poor. We kind of had to move wherever we could find a spot sometimes.
Sometimes that meant moving in with relatives, other times that meant, you know,
friends of my mom, sometimes it meant getting formed out to various relatives,
one of my mom kind of went on a row and little oddities for a while and had to look after herself.
And so just bouncing around. I lived up in Montana for a little while when I was in high school.
I actually ended up graduating when I was up there. And that was a good experience. I kind of,
you know, I was one of those kids who is a lot of people like this. And I think a lot of folks who are
comfortable in middle class don't really, don't really even understand this. You see it down in LA.
There's a lot of kids who live in South LA, for example.
There may be 20 minute drive for the beach. They may have seen it once in their life.
And that's kind of, that's kind of how we were. You get confined your little neighborhoods,
you know, and you get on your bikes and ride around, you know, like latch key kids,
but your world's very, very small. And so growing up in kind of, you know, a lot of the
rough neighborhoods of places like Stockton and Central Valley, Bakersfield, different places,
actually being able to get out and go spend some time on Montana when I was in high school.
It was pretty life changing for me. I got to, and kind of being a lifestyle around
kind of people in a high trust society that I had never been around before.
You know, I'd never been in a place where people don't worry about lock in their
car doors or where it's normal on a two lane street when people are passing each other to wave,
to one another. I just never seen that before. And it kind of opened up, you know, when you come,
when you come from a certain world where social connections are very tenuous,
social trust is kind of low to be around a place like that where people are generally looking
after each other. So obviously, crying, there's things that happen, but generally people are kind
of looking after each other. You know, there's a different kind of life out there. So it was very
good for me. How did you get up to Montana? What was the situation that allowed that to happen?
My grandparents moved up there at one point. I was probably in maybe late middle school when
they moved up there. And then at some point in high school, we would visit them for the summer,
and we would always really enjoy it. They had about 38 acres up there, a little farm.
And then at one point, things were getting pretty hairy at home. And so we ended up going up,
the kids, me and my sister, we ended up going up there and staying for a year, year and a half,
before my mom ended up coming as well. And what, how many sisters do you have?
I had three, I'd rather two at the time. So I was up in Montana, I was probably like 10 years ago,
maybe eight years ago, and it was in the summertime. And I was driving out of Bozeman through
Big Sky, and I was driving back to California. And it was, it was the summertime. And I wanted my
kids to like sleep on the whole way home. So I left it probably seven o'clock at night. But it was
the summertime. So it stayed light until about nine. So I did the full drive down the, what is it?
The one 91. I did the full drive down the 91, which is just absolutely like, it's epically
beautiful. Just beyond, it's just epic. And now my kids are falling asleep. So just me, you know,
listening to Black Sabbath or something, and just amazed. And then by the time I'm making it to
wherever I'd have or something, and you start getting into the more open terrain, it was dark.
And then I drove through the night. And as the sun started to come up, I was in San Beredu.
And I remember, and you know, there's parts of the, what is it? Parts of the 15 or the
215 through San Beredu, do you know that turn into like a two lane? It's not like a big highway.
And there's always traffic. And so I came from this just absolutely open mountainous, you know,
snow covered hills, which there's snow covered hills in the summertime, pine trees, animals everywhere.
And then the next thing you know, I'm in San Beredu, you know. And you know, it's just a totally
different world, you know. And when you were talking about the different world that you live in,
you know, and I grew up in a tiny New England town on a dirt road in the middle of nowhere. And you
kind of think that that's what the world is. But yeah, kids, and I think it's probably less like this
now because you can see so much of the world through the internet and through media and through movies.
But yeah, it was kind of like that was your world. So that must have been a serious
eye opener for you to get to go from, you know, central California to freaking Montana.
It was. Yeah, and socially, especially socially, you know, coming from middle schools in high
schools where, you know, on one hand, something like a fight on campus was taken very seriously.
There are armed cops on campus, right? Coming from a high school that had almost 5,000 kids, a
subway and a pizza hut, you know, on on campus and going to, you know, a school up in Montana where
my graduating class had about, I think, 40 people. And, you know, in a weird way, a fight was not
as big of a deal up there. The counselors and teachers would literally tell to of us to take it
outside. But there was no threat that this was going to escalate into some of the normal
kids getting shanked. Right. It wasn't even in anybody's mindset that that was a possibility.
And so it was like, it was like going back a few decades, you know, in a way. And they still call
soda pop up there. Well, there's parts of the country where that's just what that's just how.
I still, I just can't help it. It's like buddy Holly, like 1950s. But it was, you know, there's
a lot of things that it feels like going back a few decades, which in a ways it kind of
a sad way to look at it because the things that are different up there are really that there
are certain elements of civic society, you know, social trust and things that they take for
granted that we don't take for granted the cities on the coast for the most part anymore. And
so to say that it's like going back a few decades, you know, it's kind of admitting that we've
lost a little something down here and that, you know, maybe there's something that's going
to be encroaching, you know, on the areas that still have, you don't like to think of it that
way, but it's out of felt. So when you were going from high school, how many high schools did you
say you went to? I think 11, a couple of them, I went to more than once, so I would change and then
come back to another school. So, so how did you who you're hanging around with?
You know, it would depend. So, when I would find with the school in Montana that I was at,
I had like a little group of friends that we would hang out with. We go, you know, one of them,
their parents had a ranch with a bunch of land and we go out there and play paint bulbs. It was a
great time. And I had a good group of friends up there. A lot of the times when I was at my
schools in California, the big ones, you just get lost in, I would not really, I wouldn't hang out
with anybody. I would be the kid, you know, in between classes. I've got my nose in a book and
lunch period, I would go throw some shorts and shirts on and go run laps or run stairs in the
in the football stadium or something just kind of by myself. Did you play any sports? Often on,
and I got to be a pretty decent wrestler by the end. I played football when I could track
cross country, whatever, you know, depends on where I was. It was hard because, you know, it's kind of
strange as a rule that never really made sense to me and it still doesn't. But I guess they're trying to
prevent like schools from bringing in ringers and stuff. But if you get into a school, there's
like you have to have been there for a certain period of time before they allow you to participate
in sports and a lot of times I was changing schools every three months. You just wouldn't make the window.
Yeah. So you, like you say you were reading. Yeah. At what point did you figure out, you're going
to start reading books? Because I don't think I figured that until I was 28, you know, you couldn't
get me to read a book. I mean, when I was going through high school, you, that was like a crazy idea
to me. It's actually fallen terribly sit down and read a book. It would be tough for me to figure
out when that started. It's as long as I can remember though. When I was five, six, seven years old,
I got to the point where if you stuck me in, you know, if I was in a dentist waiting room and he had
an old issue of good housekeeping, I'm reading the whole thing. As long as I'm in there, I read
dictionaries. I read in psyched the P, I would read anything that I could find around. It's kind of
missed that actually. Like now with the internet, you never read anything random. You go find something
that you want to read about and you click on a link and you go to the next thing. I would just read
whatever there happened to be around. I would literally read the dictionary if that was what was there.
It was a refuge for me. You know, in a life where instability was probably the defining feature,
you know, and I was growing up. Just gave you these, you know, I could, I could be reading a series of
books and something I could take with me from this school, to the next school, and kind of stay in
that world. And yeah, it really was a refuge and it, you know, the books I would read was that's
where I would get a lot of my sort of models for behavior. Everybody does that to a certain degree.
You know, they model themselves on their favorite heroes or whatever, but coming from a place where
I didn't have a whole lot of role models around, especially not for any period of time.
They really took the place, you know, of my real life role models and kind of taught me how to
behave in a lot of ways and kind of taught me the virtues and values that you should have, that I should
aspire to because I didn't have a lot of models for those things. And some ways it becomes, you know,
you can, you can get pathological about that. You can get to the point where you're so sucked into
these fictional worlds that, you know, I have friends, a lot of people, it seems like mostly women,
but I meant to who they can tell you how many, they can tell you what flavor of birthday cake they
had on their seventh birthday and what they got as presents. And I don't remember anything from like
10 years ago. And it's just, you know, most of the time throughout, you know, my whole life and this
is still a, you know, I have like a little bit of a doctor do a little kind of thing going where
or Mr. McGoo rather, where, you know, I'm always up in my head, you know, I'm always thinking about
whatever book I just read or, you know, whatever book I'm about to read and so I'm always kind of
up here and a lot of times I'm missing things that are going on around me. And so you try to ask me
about things that happened last week or let alone years and years ago, there's whole patches of my
childhood that are just totally inaccessible. You know, I'm not even things where, you know,
somebody could be like, you know, that time and they jog your memory, it's just, I was not present
at the time. You know, my nose was in a book or that's what I was thinking of. And so I really kind of,
kind of, you kind of use that as a refuge. Did you, you know, you said you're in a single mom,
what was going on with your father at this point? You know, so my father was gone out of the picture
permanently by the time I was two. He was, my mom was 16 years old when she came pregnant with me.
I mean when she was 17 and my father was a criminal and a drug addict and a violent guy and
came from a violent family, you know, and he was in jail for the final time that I ever saw
when I was two years old. I have a couple like very, very brief kind of flashes of memories that
I'm told, for him, but I don't remember what he looks like or anything like that. And yeah,
so he was gone by the time I was two. Right about that point right before he left my mom with
my sister. So she was pregnant when he went to the clinic and, you know, at that point my mom's
19 years old, two of us so far, two kids, dads out of the picture for the last time. You know,
she's got a tenth grade education. Any person did she wear her parents around? You know, my family's
kind of, it's one of those, I think it's a good American story, right? There's various strains of immigrants,
you know, my great grandmother came from Serbia and like 1906 or something like that. My great
grandfather, her husband came up from Mexico. You know, these two people from these completely opposite
live styles and sides of the world somehow find each other, but they're both coming from, you know,
my great grandfather was a minor. You know, he would, his family would be in California and he's
going off to Nevada, Arizona and working in silver mines and stuff. Just breaking his back to
provide just enough for his family to get by. It was a hard life. My father's son, you know,
my father was a bad guy, a million different ways, but, you know, he, I hear, I hear horror stories about
where he came from. You know, he was sleeping on a park bench when he was 12 years old because his
mom threw him out of the house. His uncle was teaching him how to shoot up when he was 13, 14 years old.
You know, this is a, I don't hate the man at all. I never met him afterwards or anything like that,
but I have sympathy for somebody like that. There's very, very few people, you know, discipline
equals freedom and all those kind of things. Your uncle's teaching you to shoot up when you're 13
years old. You're climbing up a pretty good, damn big hole, you know. And so you have like these sort of
these, these, these family lineage that are just falling into whatever they may have been at one point
back in the past. By the time they get up to about my grandparents generation, it's just chaos,
right? It's just no structure, no support system, no, anything. And things had, you know, my, my
grandfather, who was my mother and her three sisters, to all four of my hands, that's all of my mom's
siblings. My grandfather came into the picture after they were all born and he's their stepfather.
He's the only grandfather ever known, but he was their stepfather and he provided some stability.
He was an avi chief. You know, he was an armed real, uh, armed real bastard at the time. He got
to be a big soft teddy bear later on, but he did provide some stability. Um, and that was starting
to kind of come together around the time I was born in 81, but not really, you know, was still
like in its early stages. And so they were around, but, you know, they didn't have a whole lot of
patients for, you know, my mom, the way she was acting out, she was already probably in the gosh.
And her teenage years when she was having me and, and, you know, her and her friends were already
drinking and partying. She was probably an alcoholic by that point already. My grandparents
didn't have a lot of patients for that kind of stuff. And so they were around sort of,
if she wanted to shape up, but there wasn't really a support structure for,
especially if she wasn't like prepared to kind of fully conform. And so she was really out on a
round from a very early age, you know, with kids and no real, she's 17 years old, she got a kid,
you know what I mean? She's by herself. And then she's 19 years old, she has two kids.
Yeah. So when you're in school, like, are you, what, what, what, what, what, what,
what is it, you know, you're talking about how the world looks like, you know, physically kind of
and socially on the outside. From your mind, what did you, what did your future look like? Did
you see, you know, are you looking at people going, oh, well, I could do this or I could do that.
I could go to college or I could go in the military or I could, like, what were you thinking
about day-to-day? Did you have any visions like that? Not until pretty late. No, I, you know,
one of the things about, I think a lot, a lot of people when they look at somebody like you.
And whether this is true or not, it's the impression they get, is that Jaco seems like this guy
who, like, turned 18 or whatever, got out of high school and just, I know exactly what I want to do
and now from now, this point on, like, for the rest of my life, like, I'm going to just focus on
becoming that thing and everybody's like, God, I wish I could have, like, had something like that
when I was, whatever age, most people go through their whole lives and they never, you know, have that
level of, uh, a vision of what they want to become and then being able to focus on it. And
when you're coming up in a very unstable environment, one of the things that happens is your time
horizon just gets shrunk down and shrunk down until, you know, you're really trying to figure
out how to get through the next week or the next day or the next, you know, class or whatever it is
and thinking about the future, you know, I mean, I can't remember as a kid, like, you know,
maybe maybe I watched Jurassic Park and like, I want to go dig up dinosaur bones or something,
but as far as like a serious vision from my life and now. Yeah, you know, I actually,
I wanted a juggle live events that I did. I, I talked about this fact, uh, and it's just pure luck,
right? It's pure luck that at some point, you know, you watch Jurassic Park or whatever and I watched
a full metal jacket or I watched Platoon and at some point, uh, I watched one of those movies
actually is probably a apocalypse now. I think that's the first, the first thing when I was, you know,
whatever, probably, you know, eight years old or something. Apocalypse now made you want to be a soldier.
Oh, yeah. That's just great, Junker. Yeah. But, you know, you see apocalypse now and you think, okay,
you know, I always, you know, I was always running around playing war, I was always running around
playing soldiers. So I had that in my brain, but the, I think when I realized, oh, yeah, you know,
I was thinking about this the other day, there was a friend of the family who had an older son who is a
Marine Corps drone instructor and when he came home for leave or something and he had a, uh, a Chevy,
like SS, right, a Chival, and or, oh, oh, he had a bad ass muscle car and you know, he was a Marine
Corps drone instructor and I was like, okay, you know, I don't know how old I was, but I wasn't old.
And it sort of made me realize that this idea of my, in my head of running around and being,
like, some kind of command, was a real thing that you could actually do. And then, then once I found
on about the Seal team's cool, but my whole point in telling you all this is that, you know, you hear,
you hear, like Jordan Peterson will talk about, you know, you got to have, if you have an aim,
then you, then you know what you're trying to get after, right? So when I joined the Navy and like
wanted to be a seal and then I, I wanted to be a good seal, that was my aim and you're 100%
right, once that became my aim and once I figured out what I needed to do and the beautiful thing
about it was in the Navy and then in the Seal teams, they told me, this is what you have to do to be good,
to be a good seal, you do this, to be a good seal, you do that, to be a good seal, you do the other thing.
So absolutely, I was lucky because, you know, I was a freaking, you know, crazy kid that was doing
all kinds of really stupid, stupid things that just were not good for the world. And luckily,
I, I signed that down in line and became, you know, went in the Navy, but so I did have that and that immediately,
I was like, okay, and even when I was, I think my mom showed me something where I was, you know,
like, whatever, eight years old or something and it was what do you want to do in
you grow up and I said, like, soldier or marine, like that was good to go, right? So that was,
whenever anybody talked to me about anything else, I was kind of like, I can't co-iron you know what I'm doing.
So that was a real benefit and that put my whole future into context because I saw this thing that I could do.
And as I told Johnny Kim the other day, like when I joined the Navy, I felt completely liberated
because I knew that I was good to go for 20 years, you know, or 30 years, I was like, yep, I'm good to go.
I've got a job, I've got a paycheck, I've got a, I've got to have friends, it's going to be cool.
I'm going to have a mission to do like something to buy into.
It was something to aim at with something to buy into as part of being part of like the coolest gang ever.
So what's not like, what's not to like? I think we're a lot of people struggle.
But there's probably two parts of it. It is one is trying to figure out what that thing is,
you know, most people, they just, they have things that they're into and they,
what I think what most people really long for is something that'll just present itself,
you know, there'll be a ray of sunshine shining down on it and they'll just know,
this is the thing that I need to devote all my energy to. And now I can, there's your aim, right?
Now I can just devote myself to this thing fully. I think that's why people get caught up in
movements sometimes, right? Whether it's politics, whether it's a geotist movement or whatever.
Like whatever it is, it's something that like, here's the answer, do this, here's a clear path
to becoming a better person, quote unquote, according to the following value system, but you know,
how to sort of level up in this mode. And for most people that doesn't come, for most people,
you have to kind of start trying things and really start working and then it'll unfold over time
for you. It's not just going to present itself, you know, as easily. And then the other thing is,
and this isn't just true of kids that came from difficult backgrounds like I did,
it's true of more and more people where, you know, people talk about like class privilege,
you know, your parents, most of the way that that applies is not that your parents are going to
leave you a bunch of money. It's that you're growing up in a household where you're watching your
dad get shit done. You're watching your mom get up in the morning and put herself together and go
about her day and put the house together and go to go to work, whatever it is. And you're just watching
people encounter obstacles in their life and assess, execute, you know, what our orient themselves
and overcome the obstacle. And, you know, there's just a growing number of people who, and I certainly
was this way, you know, growing up with a single mom who was having a very difficult time
managing her own life in any kind of, you know, just the most basic ways. I never saw anybody
just sort of encounter an obstacle at a point where they could see it in the distance. You know,
everything was a panic exercise all the time. Everything got put off until the last possible moment
and now you have to react to it because it's an emergency if you don't. Everything is an emergency
all the time. And, you, so you don't, you don't learn how to sort of structure your,
your your goals and how to systematically work towards them. And that's something that you have to learn,
you know, I, I was fortunate enough that, you know, I had a couple of coaches at various times
for brief periods, but they made enough of an impact that, you know, things got, you know, that I had a
different way of looking at things, but even me, like I didn't start to get that until,
until I was in the Navy, you know, probably I was 22, 23. You said you were a good restaurant,
you were a rest of the worry. All right, decent. I mean, I could hold my own. I was a, I had a winning
record, but I wasn't any, you know, so you didn't make it to stay. When I, like that, or did you?
Well, I, I, I went when I was up in Montana, but those boys up there in Montana,
so I like to sink California up in Montana. These kids all start when they're four or five years old.
It's ridiculous. And like down here, if people start 7th or 8th grade, like they've got a huge
jump on people because most people start ninth grade down here. It's changing a little bit now.
It changes a lot. I do, I'm hearing a report that, yeah, the kids are getting after it. I,
I mentioned how, you know, one of the things that happens when you're living an unstable life
is that your time horizon just shrinks. You know, you're focused on getting through the next,
on keeping your emotions together for the next half hour sometimes, let alone, like thinking years
and advance about what you want to do with your life. And, you know, a lot of people kind of stay in
that mode where they're just getting through the day, and they're doing that 365 times, and then
that's a year, and then they do it more and more, and that's a couple years, and now they're adults,
and they don't even feel like they've made any decisions in their lives. They feel like,
you know, obviously everything that they've done has been a decision, but it's never felt that way.
It's always felt like the momentum of their lives is just carrying them forward and they're reacting
to whatever the next thing is that's demanding a reaction, but they didn't plan for that, you know,
for that thing, it's just presenting itself upon them at a time when they're not really prepared
for it, they haven't gotten themselves in, so they're just making a decision in the moment that
may or may not, you know, here's actually, I should not tell this story actually. So,
one of my first memories, I don't know what I want to talk about this, okay, so one of my first memories,
like probably my first memory is just, my childhood occurs to me in flashes, just brief little
flashes of images that people tell me real, and so I believe them. When I was like two years old,
I think I was laying on a bed with my father, I must have been too or younger, because he was
out of the picture when I was two, and he used to like to cut wedges of green apples and put a little
bit of salt on them and eat them, and I was eating these with them, and we were watching a TV that
was like, I'm one of those stands like up in the corner, so that's one flash, and then there's a
couple of other flashes like that, and then there's a flash when I'm five years old, and I know it,
because I was in kindergarten at the specific school that I was at, and I had just shipped my pants.
And I don't know what happened before that, and I don't know how I reacted to the situation,
it's just like the vision starts, and I've cracked my pants, and then that's all I know, and
like then it fades out, right? And so when I was in the Navy, down at San Diego,
I had a friend who was writing a bike down in Hill, and he fell, and hit his head, and so he was in the
hospital, and concussion workups, and everything for a few days. And he lived with a bunch of
other Navy guys down on one of the really nice neighborhoods in Chulavista, one of those nice
housing developments down there, like two doors away in Admiral lived, and one of those neighborhoods.
And it's a Sunday afternoon, and he's supposed to be coming home from the hospital,
my other buddy's picking him up, and so I'm going to go there and meet him just to see how he's doing
everything. So I get to the house, and they're not there yet, and so I just call him up,
the hospitals taken a while, and so I said I got a book in the car, I'll just read the book,
until you guys get here. So I'm doing this for a little while, and I'm drinking a 20-ounce coffee,
which is a terrible idea, because pretty soon, I start to get a little rumble, right?
And so I call up my friend, and I'm like Richard, any of your doors open or anything like that,
like is there a key somewhere, and I got to go to the bathroom, and he's like, I just piss
in the bushes, I'm like, I gotta do the other thing. He's like, oh, I don't think so, you can go check.
And so I go check and garage door, all the windows, everything is closed, and now since I'm up and
moving around, it's really starting to become a problem, right? And so we had another friend
across the street, and so I run across the street, and I knock on the door, I'm pound pound,
doorbell, doorbell, and nobody's there, and I've run across the street now, so now it's getting worse.
Like, come back, and I'm starting to panic. I'm asking myself, can I get my car and go drive
and look for a gas station or something, but I don't know the neighborhood that well, and I'm not
confident that I can do that. And then now I'm out in the middle of nowhere, I got, I might be out of options.
And so I'm literally, I go down like three or four houses knocking on the front doors, but nobody answers
the door, and I run back to the house and at this point I'm starting to panic, and so I go into his
backyard just so that I'm protected from full view or something, right? And I'm looking around,
and I decide I'm gonna have to take crap in his garden, which is not a, it's not the worst thing
that ever happening, but you go dig a little hole, take crap in the garden, wipe with some leaves,
do what you gotta do. And so I'm going over there and I'm preparing to do this, and I make this
faithful decision. And my point here is I'm in this panicking mindset, and I'm not planning anything,
I'm just acting, I'm just doing whatever, right? And so I look up and they have a backyard,
like a balcony deck coming off the master bedroom, and I look up there and I say I bet that door is not
locked. And for some reason, I just decide I'm gonna try that, and I go over and I'm climbing up,
there's no stairs or anything. So I'm having to like pull myself up and climb up onto this back deck,
and as I'm trying to pull myself up my shoes are real loose, so I kick my shoes off, so I've got
just my socks on, and I'm at this point from the, like, from the strain of getting up there,
that like if that thing's locked, I am crapping on my friend's deck. That's just all there
is to it, right? And so I get up there and I run to the door and I throw it open, sure enough it's open,
and I just run into the place, and I'm already pulling my pants and underwear down as I run into
the master bathroom, and literally doing one of those things where you're like diving,
ass first towards the toilet, like to kind of get there. And as I'm diving like that toward the toilet,
I can't explain this decision like to this day. I look and I realize he's out of toilet paper,
I can't do it here. And so I jump up and pants and underwear down around my ankles,
I run out of the bathroom, run out of his bathroom, and out of his bedroom, and down the upper
hallway, and he has one of those stairways where it kind of, you know, it goes down like halfway,
and then there's a stopping point of platform, and then it goes down at a 90 degree angle.
And so I'm, I mean, my, I'm just, everything is hanging out, ass is hanging out and I run,
and I just jump onto the second deck, turn, jump onto the ground floor, which is like the
bottom right in front of the front door. My socks, because I kicked off my shoes, hit the tile,
slide out, I fall down, bang my head and crap, everywhere. And I'm literally lying there. This
is true story. And so I'm laying there, and for hit at that point, as I'm laying, I mean,
it's going up my back, like I'm laying on my back, and it's just, right? And as I'm laying
there, I had that vision, it just came right to me, of when I was five years old and I had crap
my pants. And it was almost like this mystical thing that happened where it seemed like the two
incidents were somehow connected, right? Like I had had that happen, and then it just my life had
been like one, you know, this tumbling momentum up to this point that had led me to a place where I'm
lying on my friends, you know, tile floor with my crap running up my back, and I'm just laying
it with my head ringing, trying to figure out like just just going over all of the horrible decisions
that I had to make to end up in this situation, and all of the offerings that I had to avoid it,
like I could have just gone to his garden, I could have just, you know, trapped in the toilet upstairs
and solved the toilet paper problem, like, across that bridge when I got to it. But when you're
in this mode where you're just making decisions based on immediate need and whatever, it's funny
like, I didn't mean for this to fit so tightly, like I just, it kind of came in on my head when
you mentioned it. And, you know, you're just making decisions, and then you end up in places that
you really can't explain. And if somebody were to say like, you know, well, you did this and you did
that wrong, you need to this, you're kind of like, yeah, yeah, yeah, but at the time, like it didn't
feel like I was making a decision. I was just, I was just going. And people do that and like,
there are real lot of, you know, and, oh, the, the, actually it's the funny part is the end of that
story was I cleaned everything up and, like I literally, like, I'm just, my head's ringing,
and I walk, I, my, waddling over to my friends bathroom to go clean myself up, just dripping,
disgusting. And I'm like 25 years old, I'm not a child, okay, I'm gonna do it. You're, you're, you're,
you're like, this is literally 2006, you're in Ramadi right now. And this is what I'm doing, okay,
like, and, and, and I get in there, I clean myself up and I do my best to clean up the floor,
but he's got like the ground tile and you can't quite get all the smell out. And so by the time
my friend gets back home with my friend from the hospital, I had a change, I had like gym clothes in my
car. I'm just sitting in my car reading my book, like, stupid, stupid, stupid, and so we go into the house,
and my friend smells their shit somewhere, and he blames his dog and he starts shouting it is
dog and I'm just watching it happen. Like I didn't say anything, I didn't tell him for years after that.
And, but yet people do that with their whole lives, right? And so instead of having, you know,
just, they're head bringing and being splattered with their own shit, you know, they have three
kids and an alcohol problem and maybe a record, you know, from something they did when they were 17
or whatever it is. And they get into this place where like now the enormity of trying to correct
course is so overwhelming for them because they, not only are they in this whole, they, they have
no tools, you know, psychological tools, emotional tools, anything to kind of navigate their way out of this.
It's a lot of people like that now. I think that's why podcasts like yours, Jordan, Peter,
some, it's, they resonate with so many people because they, they, they, they let people know
that you can just take control of your life. Like you can just, you can just take control.
You can start doing the right things like right now. And you know what the right things are,
maybe you don't know what the right things are, like a grand scale, but you know how to,
right, you know how to clean your room, you know, the little things that you don't do every day.
You sleep in, stop sleeping in, get up early, get up at 430. You can do that, you know, and when you get up,
go workout. Maybe you don't know what the long term path is, but those, these little things
that you can start to take control of. And no matter how unstable or chaotic your life is,
you know, you can start to control this little world that can start to expand once you do gain control of it.
And yeah, so I mean, that's one of the reasons I, I really like, it's been 20 years probably
since I read about face, but you know, the, the passage that you just read,
I maybe think about like one of the things that I really liked that of is the idea that you can
be in a situation that feels extremely chaotic. And so that you don't really have any,
anything stable to use as points of reference when you make decisions. But you can still carve out
like a little zone of control and you can make decisions like, you know, take, you can take control of that little
area and you can, you know, you can be the person that, once you got control of your own life,
maybe just the one person that's closest to you needs you to be. And then the two or three or four
people closest to you need you to be. And you can kind of start to, you know, no matter what the situation
is, I'm going to how chaotic it feels, you can start to, you know, take control. And, and,
yeah, like I said, it took me, well, I said 23, 24 earlier, but I'm still
shitting up my back when I'm 25, so maybe I'll push that age for adulthood out a little bit past that.
Now, you and I have talked about this a little bit, but, you know, one of the things that's,
I think, makes you unique is your cognitive capacity. And, you know, for lack of a better way of saying
it, you're smart, you're smart person. And, but when you were in school, like, did,
what was the academic life for you, like when you were in school?
I was a sea student. I think I graduated with like a 2.4. I was one of those kids who, you know,
I'm smart enough. I'm not a genius, but I met that level of smart where, you know, it can be a blessing
or a curse. Just like, you know, you've got a high school athlete who has just been so naturally gifted
that he, you know, in high school, he just never really has to learn more graphic. He just doesn't have to.
And then he gets to college and it's like, oh, everybody's a badass here.
And then it doesn't work out the same way, because you're just, you're not going to develop that,
like overnight now at this point. You had to spend a lot of time doing that. And that's what everybody
else has been doing. And so, you know, I, when I grew up, you know, my home life was chaos a lot of the times.
I mean, really just chaos. And so I would come in and I would ace all of my tests.
And I would, you know, write good papers when those were due. I'd win all the spelling
B's, win all the math contest and so forth. But I could probably count the number of home
work assignments I did on one hand in 12 years. I just didn't do them. And, you know,
you could learn some really negative lessons from that. You know, you can learn that you don't
really have to work on a day-to-day basis because when push comes to shove at the very, very end or
whatever, when the chips are down, you could just sort of throw something, throw things together and make it work.
Which works when you're trying to pass, you know, history in seventh grade.
It doesn't work when you have a serious job of a lot of responsibility and people, you know,
who are depending on you, it doesn't work. And so, I feel very fortunate that I went into the
name because it allowed me sort of a space in my late teens and early 20s to learn some lessons
that if I had to learn a mountain of civilian world, there would have been a lot of greater consequences,
you know, for my, for my growing pains. And so, yeah, academics, I mean, it was, you know,
my teachers generally like me. I kind of, depending on where I was, I could be a little bit of a
clown, have some behavior problems, but, you know, depending on which parts of my childhood,
I could be, I was pretty angry kid, I could be pretty violent sometimes, you know, there's a lot of
violence at home and I had two little sisters that I was looking after and kind of trying to provide
some kind of stability for. And so, I would do my best at home, not to show any emotion, really,
not to show that I was being affected by things that were going on around. But then I would get
school sometimes and I would take it out on other people. And I was never a bully, I got bullied
at home, you know, and so I didn't like bullies, but I would be kind of the kid who was waiting
for excuse. And, you know, I went to a lot of kind of, you know, inner city ghetto schools where I was
the only white kid around and everybody else is in the same boat I am as far as the stuff they're
dealing with at home, you know. And so, you know, you get a bunch of kids who were middle school
at early high school environment like that and there's plenty of excuses to go around if you were
looking for them. And, and yet even despite that, you know, I've gotten fights and I would have
some behavior problems, but, you know, my teachers, generally they kind of, is another one of those,
you know, blessing and a curse thing, right, where they let me slide a little bit. My teachers
would like me for the most part. But they would let me slide on things they probably shouldn't
let me slide on. Just say, like they let me slide on never doing my homework because they assumed that
they kind of knew that things were kind of crazy back home and they would make those excuses for me.
And, you know, you got to learn at some point, this is something I didn't get until I was in the
Navy and had some good leadership there that you're going to reach a certain point in your life where
nobody's going to care about your excuses anymore. It's just not going to matter. Like people will,
they might sympathize or something, but that's just, it's not their problem. You're in adult now,
which means your problems are your own. You know, and if you're looking around when you encounter a
problem for who's going to fix it without realizing that like, oh, I'm the guy, like I'm a grown-up now.
So I'm actually the one who's supposed to address this problem, like other people are supposed to be
looking to me. You know, that's kind of, that's kind of, I guess, what I would maybe define as an adult,
right, is if you encounter something rather than having like a dependent mindset where you're looking
around, who's going to fix this, you realize intuitively, you're the one, you know, and that
doesn't happen for a lot of people for a long, long time in their lives, if ever, and it didn't
happen for me until I made 20s. And, you know, again, it's one of those things that maybe you just sort of
have some set of experiences or something in you where it just clicks naturally. But, you know,
if I think for most people, you pick that up by watching the adults around you take responsibility
for their own lives. And if you're not exposed to that, that it can take a long time, you know,
and it took some, you know, some ass kickings in the Navy from some my leaders to kind of bang
that into my head. People that I owe a lot to, you know, really owe a lot to. And I was a
huge pain in their butts for a long time. But, you know, I owe them a lot for sure.
You, uh, I guess maybe you're senior year, you took the SATs and got a perfect score in your SATs.
Yeah. And I had, you know, I was graduating with, like I said, about a 2.4,
and nobody really knew I was or anything. I was just a normal average goofball. And then I
ace my SATs and, you know, so I get called in for like a meeting with the school counselors and
everything and they kind of talked to me about living up to my potential and all those kind of things.
You know, I just, I wasn't into a place at that point where it was going to make much of a dent,
you know, at that one place. Yeah, at that point in my life. Like I knew I was a smart enough kid,
but when you're growing up in a home like that, I think, you know, one of the things that we,
we'll be all struggle with is, you know, you grow up with a, with a, with a very limited sense
of your own. I don't want to say your own capabilities because you have, it doesn't necessarily,
not that you don't think you can do things or accomplish tasks or something, but a very limited
sense of your own, of your own worth, you know, you, you, you, every kid who comes up in a broken home
has this little voice. Maybe some people find a way to overcome it, but I think most people,
they just learn to live with it and, you know, sort of, put in its proper place,
its whispering, the back of your head all the time, then no matter how things look around,
you no matter what other people are telling you, no matter how good your life is going,
it's end of the day, you're basically worthless, you know, you come out of the gutter,
and that's where you belong, and it's just, it's something that, you know, when you come from a certain
kind of background that is going to be in there, it's like, you know, when a Roman general
would be celebrated in a triumph and they'd be in their chariot on a parade and everybody's cheering
for them, they would put, you know, a slave behind them to whisper in his ear that despite all this,
you were only mortal, just to remind them of that, it's like a really pathological version of that.
All glory is fleeting. Yes. Yeah. And, um, and so, you know, the idea that,
I think about when I have kids, the thing that I want to get into their heads, and I think about
us all the time how I'm going to do it, right? Um, is I want them to have in their heads that like,
you know, if you want to be an astronaut, just pick the craziest thing, you want to be a fighter pilot,
you want to pick the craziest thing. It is purely a matter of deciding that that's what you're
going to do, and then just focusing on it and step by step by step, just ruthlessly pursuing it,
and then you can literally do whatever you want. You can do whatever you want. There's nothing that's
closed off to you just kind of by the nature of life, you know, and when you, uh, when nobody kind
of teaches you that, and for whatever reason you don't pick it up in other ways, you know, maybe you,
you know, you figure out when you're 30 that like, oh, if I want to start focusing on this when I was
15, then, you know, whatever, but like most people get to the point where, by the time they start to,
if they come out of that state, you know, they've got so many obligations or the couple kids,
whatever it is that now your life is kind of on a certain track, and, you know, that's the thing that
I would love to get into my kids heads, that, you know, there are no limits to what you can do if you
decide you want to do it. There's nothing that's just naturally closed off to you because of who you are,
or what you are, anything like that. But, you know, that's something that kids have to learn, or maybe
it's the other way. Maybe they, maybe they start out that way and they learn to think of themselves as
limited. I don't know, but I think kids have a hard time and I was give this advice to parents
and to kids when I talk to kids, is kids have a hard time connecting the fact that what they're doing now
will impact their future. And the way that you behave right now is going to impact the way you,
the way you end up in life. And I think that's a major connection that doesn't get made. And then
the other thing is when you say to yourself, well, what do you want to be when you grow up? And your
answer is, I don't know. That's not a good answer because it doesn't give you anything to aim at, right?
But if you say, I do, if the, the fall on for a parent, when you ask your kid, hey, what do you want to be
when you grow up and your kid goes, I don't know. Then what you need to explain to them is, okay,
then I want you to have the most amount of options possible. And the way you have the most amount of
options possible is to be a good athlete, do good in school, work hard, learn to work good, work
ethics, state, you know, stay out of trouble. If you do that when you're young and you don't know
what you want to do, when you get older, you'll have a bunch of different options to pick from.
If you don't do that and you don't do good in school and you don't take care of yourself
and you don't work hard, you don't get good work ethic and you get in trouble. All a lot of those
options are going to close down. That's the way it works. And so you have to explain those things to your
kids when they're, and you have to explain it to them over and over and over again so that they get it
because otherwise they don't. And you know, like I said, for me, I was super lucky because
all my craziness, you know, all all energy going in multiple different directions and most of
them bad, all of a sudden with the signing of one piece of paper, all of a sudden they all
became focused in the right in a positive way. And that was very helpful to me and very helpful to you.
But yeah, so before we jump into the Navy, so you get a perfect score on the SATs, which is insane,
especially like I understand this kids that get perfect scores on the SATs a lot of them go to,
you know, a tutor and study and computer systems and they do all this stuff and they take all the
classes and they study all these classes all the time. You basically, obviously you have the natural
ability and then just reading, which makes me feel very vindicated or reinforced because I always tell
little kids, hey, the way you get smarter is by reading, read, read, read, read, that's what you do.
It worked for you, apparently. Yeah, yeah, definitely that. I mean, did you get any like pressure,
like, hey, you need to go to college? Well, this was pretty, this was pretty late my senior year
by this point and so I had kind of already decided that I was going to go to the state university
where some of my friends were going at the time and I didn't spend much time there. I went there
for a year and realized that I didn't know what I wanted to major in and I planned on going into the
Navy afterwards anyway and my grandfather was in the Navy retired as a chief and so I just said,
well, I'm not going to waste any more money here any more time here and so I joined the Navy
and it was a life-changing decision. Did you join to do any specific job?
No, I was at a point where I'm designated to the fleet. No, I, you know, I ace my ass
of ab and so, you know, they wanted to make me a nuke but I couldn't go nuke, I couldn't leave for like 18 months
I was going to be nuke and so they put me in as, you know, doing electronics, I could, you start off
in the same school and you could be an ET or a fire controlman and fire controlman sounded cooler.
Wacoer? So, and so I went down that road and I'm very glad I did. I've loved my job ever
since, you know, as far as my actual, the actual stuff I work on and everything I love it.
So, when you joined the Navy, what was boot camp like? Was it like a positive experience because
you were getting structure and a paycheck and all those things? Especially the structure and
and kind of like what you were talking about all of a sudden, I had a game that I knew the rules
too, you know, that was like, that's kind of the thing when you grew up with instability,
is you just don't know what the rules are. You don't know like what actions am I supposed to take
that'll actually lead me to a positive place? Because it just seems like no matter what you do,
you know, it's, it's not like you take a step forward, towards some goal and then another step
forward and another step forward. It's you take a step forward and then the situation changes
and you're in a new place and now you take another step forward and the situation changes and
you're in a new place. And so you can very easily get into a play, you can get out, you can get
up sort of a learned helplessness in a situation like that where you're just kind of focused on
trying to provide yourself a little bit of stability, you know, in your personal emotional world a
little bit. You know, with my sisters at the time and that's all you're really focused on. You
don't, you just don't know the rules, you don't know the rules of the game. And when you get into boot camp,
you know, I went in, when I joined the Navy because I had some college credits, I said,
we can make you a knee three and I said, well, what do I got to do to do that? I said,
you know, go get your transcripts and so forth and I'm like, I want to leave like as soon as possible.
Like, I don't care about that. I want to get out of here. And so I left three days after I walk into
the recruiters off. Basically. What year was that? 2001 January. So also it's pre-September 11th
and you were able to leave in three days. I might be exaggerating a little bit, but it was very
rapid. I mean, it was really rapid. And so I was on the bus in from the time I got there,
I love boot camp because it was, where did you go to boot camp San Diego? No, great legs. They didn't
have anywhere but great legs. Oh, okay. And I was in January and my, I, I, I, I, what I,
RDC, my drill instructor was this guy who was, he's, he had already been in like 25 years. He was a
Navy diver. He had this, he literally looked like Popeye. He was kind of jacked and he had this
screwed up, real face, really recruit. And he was, his name was HTC Brian. And he was just such a bad
ass. I mean, you know, I, I grew up without a father, you know, and I had like an uncle and a grandfather
who I would spend time with for periods of my childhood who were good role models for me and
like provided some stability and like some idea of what, you know, a virtuous man looked like and
strong man with his, with his life together looked like, but like all of a sudden I had this dude who was
like, he was just like a rock, you know, and he was, and the thing that the thing that boot camp
did for me that I think this is probably the biggest lesson most, most kids who were just unstructured
get out of it is when they would do things like you remember when they would do things like, you know,
one drill instructor would come up and tell you to, you know, make your rack and do all these other
things like you got a half hour to do it and he'll leave and then another one will come and tell
you to do a whole bunch of other stuff that's going to take you 29 minutes. And so then you're done with
that and you know, the first one comes back and says, why is he in your rack made and done it
on a, a, a, a, a, a, he knows that you didn't have time to make make you rack. The point is he's trying to
teach you that the answer is not, oh, I couldn't do it because of such and such and so and so the answer is
Roger that, I'll make my rack right now that whatever your excuses are nobody cares. Nobody cares
and for me that was it was it was the most helpful thing about boot camp and so I went in as any one,
even though they offered me three, I went in as any one but in boot camp, they made me the, you know,
recruit chief petty officer to our park right away and then I pick, you know, for the, for all of the
graduating divisions, I was the honor recruit and so they made me an E3 anyway coming out of boot camp
and, you know, from then, like once I got into the technical school pipeline, you know, I was
the class leader all the way through, I ace all my schools and I was just like, you know, on point
it was just, you know, it was nice to know the rules of the game and to know that if I do the following
things right, then people are going to people that I respect and who's approval I want are going to be
happy with me and you know that just sort of the incentives and inputs were, you know, it's hard,
it's hard to describe when you come from such an unstable environment how liberating it is to be in a place
where, you know, there are known rules to the game and you know, you know, how to play it.
It was, it was very, very good for me. So, you know, that's a good leadership perspective there,
you know, I talk all the time about how you got to light, you know, and not only I talk about
what's all them, I do this all the time. If you work for me, you got all kinds of leeway to
move around and make things happen and step up and execute things, but occasionally I'll work with a
a boss who has got so much who's so laws-a-fair and so hands-off that no one actually knows what's happening
and the, and the same thing I'll say, listen, you know, I'm talking to your front line and I'm talking to
mid-level managers, they don't even know what it is that you want them to do and so, you know,
we'll formulate a plan of, all right, here's the mission, here's what we're trying to get
done, here's our goals, here's our priorities and they put that out and then I'll go and talk to
the, you know, the, the, the subordinate leadership and they'll be so happy because it's just what you said.
They go from not knowing the rules of the game, what are we focused on, what am I supposed to do?
And how do I, how do I move through this system right now to like, okay, I got it,
you want me to do these things? Thank you for telling me. So, that is something that as a leader,
you have to be careful of and that's something that that definitely, you know, you and I had the same
experience, cool, I'm playing a game now and I know the rules. So, what was, when you, how long was your,
we are fire control school? Explain what that is a little bit. So, fire control is not being a fireman,
fire control is working on naval weapon systems. And so, I worked on the A just weapon system,
which is the air defense and ballistic missile defense system. We've got on all of our destroyers and cruisers right now.
My school was about a year and a half. And so, you start out in like a basic electronic schools.
People, you know, a lot of people on the outside, they don't understand. They're taking people off the street.
And basically making effective, they don't know what an electron is. They don't know why it is
that when you plug something in the lights, come on. I didn't know any of that, right? And it was electricity.
And they got to take you and turn you into somebody who can go, you know, take a bunch of test equipment,
and a bunch of tools, and go figure out what's wrong with a hundred million dollar radar, right?
Yeah. And they do that in a relatively short period of time. I mean, Navy schools, the tech schools,
I think people who come out of those schools are colleges got to be such a cakewalk, you know,
for doing that. Like, we were in class for eight hours a day, and then we had a couple hours of mandatory
group study sessions every night. And that was five days a week. Every weekend, we had homework that
was going to take four hours both days, you know, eight hours total, something like that. We did that for a year and a half.
And it was, you know, they pack a lot in. And I mean, you know, if you really like focus on getting an education in there,
they will make you like pretty competent, you know, in a really, pretty rapid period of time. And so that was a year and a half.
And then I get put on, I was on a, I was learning about a brand new system. I went to the first ship that ever had it, right?
This variant of the spy radar, the ages spy radar. And so I get there and the ship's kill has just been laid basically in Pascagula.
And so I get sent to San Diego to wait for the ship to be built. And it's not going to be done for another year and a half, two years.
And so I don't see a ship in the Navy until I've already been in, yeah, over three years.
So what did you do for that year and a half? It was pretty awesome, actually. So we didn't have all
to do it. We didn't have, especially for like the first eight, nine months or so. We had very little supervision because we were some of the first people that got there.
And I think when my little group of ages text showed up there, the ship had a exo, a command master chief,
one other chief who was out in Pascagula, and then us out here by ourselves. And that's basically how it stayed for a long time.
And so we played the other base teams in Saafball. We had a lot of those like computer-rated, you know, little classes that you got to take on
the teaching nothing because you never seen a ship. So like all these things you're reading about, have to do a seam and ship.
Don't mean anything to you. But then after I had started to, I had already done all the computer-rated, like tests.
I was done with that, right? It's nothing left for me to do. And other people start showing up at this point.
And I figured out that they used to call like SSEW and then they had like the bunch of advanced shooting courses basically.
They had the simulation one that they did on the pigeon down, pure thirteen.
I don't know if you ever seen the ship down there that you go on and basically play counter strike.
And I had already done everything. And so I just started asking, can I go to this one again? Can I go to this one again?
I would go to these like eight, nine, ten weeks in a row just going to the shooting courses all the time.
So it's pretty great. And yeah, so that was a year and a half. I got to the ship in 2004, just over three years, that I've been in at that point.
And yeah, I got to the ship and my attitude started to change a little bit. I had some setbacks and I was on the ship.
I just didn't work very well with, I worked really well up to that point where I could be where there was a route for me to be the hot shot.
You know, in boot camp, that's exactly what happened in my schools. That's exactly what happened.
And when I was at the pre-commit attachment, that's exactly what happened. Like I was the man out there, because it was just a limited group of people.
And it was a defined number of activities that we were engaging in. And so when I get out to the ship, there's a much larger group of people.
There's senior people, I'm in E4. And I'm just another face in the crowd at this point.
And a junior sailor, no big carers, right?
But I was immature still by this point. I'm 23 as opposed. And I just start having class, especially with a cheese mess.
You know, just having wars with these guys. I was a pain in the ass. I was a huge pain in the ass.
I look back on it now and I know some of my cheese from back then. I'm like, dude, I'm so sorry.
Like I was such a pain.
What were you doing just projecting?
I was making you sad.
Trolling?
You know, in a way where I never showed up to work, drunk, I never showed up to work late.
I never had any liberty in it. It's nothing like that, right?
You weren't even worse kind of problems.
I was the worst kind of problem. And it took me a long time to figure out why.
And the fact that I never had any of those quote unquote more serious discipline problems allowed me to think I was getting picked on, right?
But I bunch of people just didn't like me.
Because I would look at these other people.
This is actually what happened that turned me around. I literally had an overnight turnaround.
I went to captain's mask three times in one year.
I got convicted all three times for what?
Disrespecting cheap petty officer.
You were in a captain's mask?
Disrespecting if it was a petty officer?
I was a problem.
That was a problem.
Give me at least a little bit of example.
Because only because in the sealed teams, I don't know that I can remember.
I don't remember anyone ever getting sent to captain's mask for disrespecting a cheap petty officer.
For a couple reasons, the primary reason is you would just get, you know, catch a beat down.
Like that just, it just not going to happen. You could beat down.
And I wish somebody could have just kicked my ass out.
So you get captain.
Give me an example. That is freaking insane.
You know, I don't think any of them were particularly aggrieved.
Here's what I would do, right?
Is I was actually like an artist at, at figuring out exactly where the lines were.
I knew what the rules were.
And then where the lines are.
And then just taking all my clothes off and tiptoeing along them.
Like, ha ha ha ha.
I'm not touching you. I'm not touching you, right?
Like, just being a judge you into counts.
But I'm getting pissed off.
Yeah, just being a king in the ass.
And like, here's an example.
Like one time, this is a perfect example of the kind of things that we do.
After the first Iraq elections in 2005, you know, the purple fingers and everything.
I know perfectly well that writing out an all-hands email is something that the captain,
the exo and the command mash chief, are allowed to do.
Nobody else allowed to do. You can't have every e4 writing out all hands emails, right?
No, you can't.
And so I write up this long email with pictures of the people with the, you know, the purple fingers and like telling everybody like, you know,
look at what we've accomplished.
And this is such a great thing that like the US military has helped to make happen and dada dada dada and fired out to all.
So you wait, you wrote a serious email.
Yes, but I would say.
But you knew it kind of was.
Well, it, I would say that I did it because I did it to be a panias.
But I meant what I said, but I also was like, ah, like I can troll them here and they can't really do anything because I'm celebrating what we've accomplished and like, you know,
whatever.
That's the kind of thing I would do, right?
And once or twice, it's like, okay, yeah, not get off.
But I was persistent and I would, it got to a point where,
um, and took one, one guy first class who I had just banged heads with, uh, for a long time before this.
I hated him.
And he hated me.
And after this, we got to be great friends literally like, he turned me around a one day.
So, um, the third time I go up, I got 45, 45 days of restriction next to duty all three times, right?
And one year.
And we were on deployment for like five months of that year and we didn't count under way time.
So I was locked on the ship for like nine months.
And one year.
And, um, and, uh, because one of them had to do with like, you know, sitting out the all hands, you
mail for a good portion, I didn't have any computer access or anything.
I'm just in jail like on the ship.
And, um, and the last time that it happened,
Wait, so what's the last time that what happened?
That I went to captain's man.
What was the last, what was the last defense?
Um, okay, yes.
So this is, yeah, this is perfect because it, it just set everything up perfectly for me to get turned around.
Um, and it doesn't sound like that first.
So what happened was at this point, they, they were so tired of my crap that they were definitely like just looking for a reason, right?
And, uh, and I knew it and I felt persecuted because of it, right?
Even though I'm totally being a pain.
Um, and so they, they found something like I was, uh, I, I, I done, I was a person that designated person in the division of time.
Who was supposed to do our maintenance on our damage control equipment.
Which kind of details you to, like another division, the damage control division part time.
And so there was a time where I was supposed to go do maintenance on our fire hoses and after you're done,
you put this sealant on, I'm to protect him from the elements, something like that.
And at that particular time, the ship was out and the, of the sealant.
And so the guy, the damage control guy who's in charge of everything, that particular time,
you told everybody, just don't worry about it this time, go do your maintenance.
And so I went and did it.
So a month or two later, I get written up for having gun-deck this maintenance because I said that I did it in accordance with the card,
but I didn't use this sealant. You can tell because they're all rusty.
And so in that instance, I was able to bring like 15 other people who were all able to vouch for me and show it.
And so that you did like, were you in straight?
Uh, what's that movie?
Uh, you went straight.
What's the damn Jack Nicholson movie?
A few good mad.
You went like straight.
You brought witnesses in.
Did you do that?
I had one person who was in my division who knew that I was telling the truth and I was like,
I can bring people in like, and they knew that I was right.
I convinced them at the time that I was right.
But I was also like, I was, so this, I was completely innocent this time.
Like, of this, right? Not innocent, but of this, I was innocent.
And they still gave me 45, 45, but all three of those times.
So 45 days restriction and 45 days has been.
Special duty.
No, especially.
They never took any pay.
And even though I went three times in one year, they never busted me down because they kind of knew that part of it was personal.
Part of it was that I had a personal problem with some of these guys, but you know,
that screw my personal problems.
I'm so bored of it.
Like they're Jesus and I'm not right.
So Roger that.
This is like the worst.
I'm serious.
I'm saying this is like the most annoying.
Oh, the worst.
Leadership problem.
It's so annoying.
Especially when you have somebody who's smart enough to sort of.
Totally.
But you know, and just, you know, while I'm saying that, like what I absolutely would have done with you is I would have put you on a fast track.
I would have put you in charge of things.
Like I would have done things.
Okay.
So I'm up upstairs in one of our combat systems spaces.
And this time, like, I'm really feeling agree.
So now that you've already been, you've been, you know, you're under sentence.
This is, this is later that day after I've been sentenced.
And so I'm really feeling victimized here because I'm actually innocent of this.
And I'm still in that mindset, right?
And I've got my chief up there.
And my chief at the time, he's a great guy.
He's a good chief.
But he did not know how to deal with me.
Like he was just, he's too nice.
And I needed someone to put a boot on my ass.
And he was not that guy.
And he's a great guy.
I know him today.
And he's just an awesome dude.
And he's one of the people I apologize to on a regular basis.
And so I get, I corner him basically.
And there's other people in the space.
And I am just tearing him apart.
Like I do this.
I do that.
I do all this work in the division.
And what about this person who showed up drunk?
He didn't go to campus mass.
What about this person who didn't show up from liberty and like,
Miss ships movement.
He didn't go to campus mass and you're targeting me for this.
That's where I was at.
And from a perspective, I was right.
And so I am just laying into him.
And he doesn't know what to say.
And so this first class, who is my LPO at the time.
And I don't like him.
And he doesn't like me.
And it's funny because he, this was,
this was, he was, he was like, he was a,
he's a very interesting personality.
He's like, he's kind of a nerd,
but he was like kind of an alpha personality.
Still, he was a sailor.
He was like, I took his job seriously.
And like, you know, if you just caught him out on the street,
he's not some like alpha personality necessarily.
But like when he's doing his job, he takes it seriously, right?
So he sees me tearing up our chief, his chief too.
And he's like, oh, god, like I could go save him.
And so he runs in there.
And he's listens to me talk for another like 30 seconds or so.
And then he just turns around and he starts blighting into me.
And I go back and forth with him.
Crowds gatherin up at this point.
And then he says, are you seriously gonna look me in the eye
and tell me that you play no role in putting yourself in the position you're in right now?
And I was like,
hmm, okay.
Couldn't say that, right?
And and he's like, I'll tell you what.
Like this isn't, this isn't World War II.
We don't shoot disorders.
Okay, this is a, this is a Navy these days where, you know, if you don't want to be here,
I'll take you to the old man.
He will sign it.
You won't even get a dishonorable discharge.
If you want to leave, we'll let you leave.
And every day that you're not doing that,
you're re-enlisting for 24 hours.
Every day you come in and show up for work.
You're re-enlisting for 24 hours because you can leave if you want to.
Nobody's gonna prosecute you for deserves to know whatever.
Like you can leave.
And so don't tell me that like this is such an awful and horrible place.
To be and everything is just wrong with it or whatever,
because every day you're volunteering to come in here.
And when, you know, every time I kind of try to tell the story to people,
it doesn't hit them as profoundly as it hit me.
But at the time, it just, it made me realize that all of the
the entire mentality that I had carried forward into that point,
up to that point on the ship.
It was just, it was all wrong.
It was a completely dependent mindset where I was looking completely outside myself
for the cause of all my unhappiness and problems and everything.
And he just got me to see that it doesn't matter what situation.
Like the ship was disciplinary mass.
It was a tough place to like if that's the environment you're adapting yourself to,
it's easy to go a ride, right?
It was a tough play.
It was our captain got escorted off by Marines like as soon as we got back from
sail around what happened.
So we're in the Panama Canal.
In the captain was an animal. He'd be a guy who like he was a guy who like seemed like
he read about being a captain in World War II and now he had his ship.
And he's walking through the interior of the ship with a lit stove in his mouth
and he's just being a captain, right?
He was a great guy in a lot of ways, but he's a wild man.
And we're in the Panama Canal coming over to San Diego.
And when you park in the Panama Canal, sometimes they tie you off to the
big, wide concrete boys, right, that kind of keep you in place.
And so we were doing that.
And one of the panamanians dipped the line and it got caught up in our propeller and it
sucked this giant concrete buoy down and destroyed our propeller and twisted the
shaft up going all the way up into the ship, right?
And so we get stuck in the Panama Canal for several days.
It's like basically trying to figure out what to do with ourselves.
Everybody's super stressed out.
The chitters are completely full because when you're in the Panama Canal you can't
discharge.
So they have to bring on portapoddies.
Those are all full.
People are leaving bags of crap in closet so they can go through them over
board at night time.
So they're there for like four or five days.
Everybody's super heated.
And when we're going to pull out finally, they tell us just go to Limpum on
one propeller just go.
And I'm standing a watch in combat and all of a sudden as we're getting ready to go.
I hear the captain come over the intercom, right?
The one MC.
No, like you know, crew, this is Captain or anything like that.
He says, Master at arms, this is the captain.
Get up to the bridge right now.
He has the Panamanian pilot arrested and can find the pilot.
The Panama Canal is one of the only places where the captain gives that control
of a ship.
There's a pilot who is panamanian down there who will drive your ship like
when you're either docking or leaving dock, right?
And so he has this guy arrested and can find because he gets into a huge fight with
them drives the ship out himself.
Hits the pier on the way out and then has the border master's doctor the
logs to keep it out.
And the exo at the time did the right thing.
And then when we got back, he reported it because you know, I want to hand it's like
there's some people who thought it was disloyal.
I'm like there's a bunch of jails up there who their whole career is just screwed.
If there anywhere near this, he saved all of those guys.
He did the right thing.
And so yeah, so it's a chaotic ship.
There was a period like a couple of years in where I think a third of the
leadership all got, you know, swapped out and booted off the ship for
frat andization. All once we had an external investigation because everybody was just sleeping with everybody.
Was it this plenary? Was there females on board?
Yeah.
And so, but you know, and yet it was this guy, my LPO at the time, who really somehow,
like he, I'm not a type person.
It's easy to shut up, you know, like especially if I'm like getting going, like,
whatever, like, I'm just I'm coming.
Just like I was coming at that chief.
And for him to be able to just shut me down like that.
Like people who were there were like, they looked at me like, oh, what's he going to say now?
And I just had nothing to say.
And I went down to my rack.
This now I'm on restrictions.
My first day of restriction.
And I literally go down to my rack and I lie down and I can feel something work
inside me.
And I just, I just, I don't, I can't, it's hard to kind of really describe.
But I woke up the next day.
And I was not just a different person.
My jaw is a completely different person.
It was like I, it was like I'm a churn ten years overnight.
We're all of a sudden I woke up in the morning and I was like, oh, this is my life now.
And it didn't feel like that before in the same way.
I could be like, you know, when I was doing well in boot camp in school and everything,
it's like, I can be good at this game.
I was going to say you're playing a game.
Right.
But, you know, getting to the point of realizing that like whatever the environment is around me,
like, I've got my own responsibility to like, you know, take care of my own circle here.
And literally the next day, like I just completely different person, this was late in 2005.
And around early 2006.
So this is just a few months after I get off restriction for the third time this year.
And I'm a second class at the time.
Because we're pre-commed, we got everybody at once at the beginning.
And so all of our leadership is changing out all at once.
And they got to find another LPO.
And this was just a few months after me coming off my third stance on restriction in less than 12 months.
And they made me the LPO because I had turned around that much.
And part of it was because we had this one guy on board.
He was an older guy who kind of joined the fleet late.
He was like a bouncer in Texas, 65 to 60.
Arnry dude, really great guy, but an Arnry dude.
And he had kind of enough personal problems with other people in the division.
They couldn't make him the LPO, but they knew nobody else in the division could handle him.
Just on a personality level. And so they put me in charge.
And it was exactly what you said.
As soon as I got to a point where I realized that the well-being of these other people is now depending on me.
You know, if I want to go start a fight with a chief, that's going to roll downhill on these other guys.
As soon as that happened, I mean, my mindset completely shifted.
It was a revelation.
And so the next year, I was 2005.
I got convicted of Catherine's mass three times.
In 2006, I was the destroyer squadron sailor of the year and got a 50 Eval.
And our division was the hot division on the ship.
You know, we gave out 50 Eval.
Yeah, that's insane.
I was on fire, man.
I just, I wasn't just like I kind of realized like,
oh, I can kind of do the right thing now.
It was like this revelation to me.
I was eating it up.
I was like, oh, I can just go do all the right things.
And I can take control of this situation.
And then, you know, I don't have to wait for other people to sort of tell me it's all right or to tell me what to do.
Or I don't have to be reactive.
I can just actually go make things happen.
And it was just a huge revelation.
So I was just eating it up.
And yeah, and I, you know, I, I owe that guy a lot.
You know, I owe that guy a lot.
And he and I after that, we got along great.
He was, this was before Donas, Don't Tell Got ShitChand.
And so he was, he was gay.
And when we would go and we got to be like enough friends that when we would go into ports in like Australia and other places and he would want to go off to like a bar somewhere.
He couldn't tell anybody else like I would go with him because he had to have a liberty buddy.
Yeah, they have some to go with him.
And so I would go and that's that's a good friend.
Yeah, yeah.
So I was going to an airport for the first time and however long and you're going to go to the gay bar with the home.
And I would just hang out and like, yeah, dudes, if you go to a gay bar in Australia, you know, you're, those use a pretty aggressive.
So you have to like, you know, kind of be ready to just keep cool.
But I mean, that's how close I got to this guy, you know, really great friends with that guy and to this day.
Like, I owe him a lot.
And I owe a lot to all the people who put up with my crap for as long as they did because they had plenty of excuses to just be like, you know, it's guys not worth the trouble.
They held out of here.
They could have booted my ass out for a million different things.
Not for, you know, again, not, I'm punching anybody in the face or anything.
But I just, I was not worth the trouble.
What they were at the work and everything else they were getting out of me was not anywhere near, you know, the trouble I was given them.
And it's like you said, it's in a way.
It's the worst kind of trouble to deal with because, you know, what I finally realized is that I was going to be a little bit more
You know, what I finally realized was the reason that the guy who showed up drunk doesn't have to necessarily go to captain's mask and get hammered the way they were coming after me is after they come to him and say how dare you.
This is wrong.
Whatever he puts his head down and he says, Roger that.
He submits to the authority of the chain of command.
And that was what it was my entire life was making a show of the fact that I did not respect the chain of command.
Because my whole goal on the ship was to basically like be a performance artist at, at, at coming up with creative ways to flip off the chain of command.
But doing it in ways again where I know where the lines are, I know what the rules are so that once you hammer me for it, I can say this is in fair.
Even though I'm totally provoking them, like 100% and everybody knows it, they know it, but worse, all of the other junior sailors know it.
And so if they don't hammer me, that undermines the entire authority structure.
If they don't come squash me, they have to figure out how to get me to bend the knee.
And because as long as I exist like that, like, you know, it could break down the discipline on the whole ship.
And I finally understood that.
You know, I finally understood why they had to come after me the way they did.
And, you know, it just, it took ownership for my own situation, you know.
And, but again, I took somebody getting in my face and shut me down.
And, and, and, and if he hadn't walked in there that day, I don't, I know I wouldn't have learned how lesson.
I would have just hammered my chief and walked off like, I asked, you know, got him.
And that would have been that. I've never would have learned that lesson, at least not in that timeframe.
So once you were now squared away, it's now 2005, what was you, you're going on to, how many departments did you do on that ship?
Two. In both of them, we were doing independent deployments actually supporting some of your buddies out in the Philippines.
Okay. Yeah, we were supporting SWIC and CL operations, you know, when they were fighting and surgeons down some of the southern islands there.
You know, since then, I worked for the DOD now and I deploy with ships sometimes.
And so I've gone on, I don't know, 10 or 15 deployments, at least for good chunks of them.
I've been all over the place at this point, but yeah, that was, so that was 06 when they put me in charge of the division.
And we actually didn't have a chief at the time either. So I was a second class for a while and I was our acting chief.
And there was a chiefs mess full of guys that hated my guts and I had to learn to navigate that too.
And some of those guys that was personal enough by that point, they didn't really care much so that I kind of turned my attitude around took some time.
But yeah, and once you turn your attitude around and you are now doing with these chiefs,
sometimes you see people slip back, right? Like they, they get some chief that they didn't respect before,
but now they try to turn over a new leaf. And when they do, it's like that guy, that guy, they still just can't put their ego and check enough to stand down.
Were you able to stand down? Well, I would say, two degree, right? So I was the acting LCPO and I was a second class, right?
Which meant that we didn't have a real chief kind of defending our guys. And a lot of times my second classes and third classes would get stuck with extra work,
that no other division wanted to do. And so to a degree, like I became very, very protective of my guys, like very, very protective.
Because you gotta remember, like I'm now in charge of a bunch of people who watched me go to Athens last three times last year.
Right? And I gotta navigate that leadership issue. Some of them are older than me. There's two first classes in the division.
I'm only a second class. You know, and I have to figure out how to deal with these 20, 25 people.
And I, it's not like I can walk in one day and, you know, because I've ironed my uniform properly, coming in and be like, now everybody listening to me, like that's not a work, right?
And it's funny because as I've been doing this latest podcast series on Jim Jones, I've realized something that in a way what I did is I started a cult.
Not like a person, I like cult where they worship me or anything, but in a way where I definitely created like a very strong us versus them us versus the rest of the ship kind of mentality, right?
And it bonded everybody together. One of the things I'm most proud of in my whole life is that I would say 80% of the group that was in our division for those couple years to this day, since 10 years ago, they're all still friends.
Or they're at least like one degree of friend separated from each other. Like if we had to get together today, everybody would be like right there, like they'd just see each other.
Created some very powerful relationships, but it was very much like a, you know, like when I would have somebody get in trouble, one kid got a DUI.
Am I going to come up to him after I've been to campus last three times last year and be like, well, how dare you? This is just unacceptable, Mr.
As I don't work, right? And so what I would do is I would say, look, you know, things are pretty good in our division right now, right?
And so I would say, you guys, each of the, each of the work centers, I give you guys a lot of leeway to run your own business and I don't like come over your shoulders all the time.
There are a bunch of chiefs on this ship who would love to get on their evaluation that they're the CF, you know, it was our division that there are divisional chief, right? They're, they're circle and like,
centrally we'll contact each other, we'll get in touch if we say, reassr how they are good, you know, in the future, they're going to work, right? It's just like, but in the future, you know, be there and make our un aren't going to become an 61 and it's always going to be so kind of
feeling profited you create that us versus them vibe and you know you can only only go
around thinking that you know other people don't like you so long before just make you
true right true. I always had to be careful that because I'd get the whole gang mentality
going and it would be us against the world and you know everyone's no ha I'd have to pull
back the reins a little bit because you know you got 22 year old JP to now and somebody
says something bad about the task unit and he is ready to murder someone you know I
have to pull the reins a little bit you know because it gets a little crazy in the in the
days so what made you decide did you make first class then pretty quick pretty quick
yeah once I had that one you must have ace the freaking test and you had a five OE
valve yeah I mean they were only promoting three four five percent up to first class for
my rate at the time but yeah I pretty much ace the test and I'd a five OE valve so I made it
pretty quickly and then I got because of the way that the schedule worked out I was just
like a little kink in the schedule I got to know I got to pick my orders my short duty orders
before I had to decide whether I wanted to reinlust which is a beautiful thing and so I ended
up taking taking orders up at Portway Neeme which is where it's like the engineering place for
the age-is-weapon system and anytime we would do you know major technical or training
evolution guys from there would come out and and work with us the engineers who have been
working with this stuff for a long time and so they kind of knew who I was and I developed
some relationships with them when I was still in the ship and so when my orders came up you know
they kind of helped me get out there and yeah I was a good experience too because you get into a
place like that where you think you're pretty good at your job you think you have an idea what you're
doing and then you get around people who really know what they're doing and you realize like you're
like a little baby you know and yeah it's a great place to live it's a great place to work so
I've enjoyed that as well I'm taking me all over the world a lot of freedom in my job you know
a lot of ability to kind of operate independently so it was good and then at one point I what so
so this whole time you're still reading a ton I assume so like in this job for example I would
say I would I would be away from home traveling um 78% of the year like sometimes I'm going 10-11
once a year and a lot of that time is out on deployed ships or I'm out in a place like Bahrain
or somewhere else where there's not a whole lot going on and I would bring a suitcase full my
clothes and work out year and everything and a suitcase full of books and I would just read that's
all I would do and I was out there by myself. I what point did you start thinking about making a podcast?
when some of my friends told me to make one so that I could leave them alone I you know I was
hardcore history fan like everybody else right and uh it takes a long time between hardcore history
episodes and you want something else to be there and this isn't the early the earlier days 2015
there weren't like 100 thousand punch podcasts there and so um I happen to be reading a lot about
the history of this really Palestinian conflict for the last couple of years and I'm always talking
my friends about it and they're like finally one of them said why don't you just go start a podcast
you always complain about hardcore history taking too long just go make one of between those episodes
and so I said okay I'll give that a shot and um yeah so I started working on that one and um
that was another one of those it was it was another one of those revelations where it's very humbling
in a way um I got to the point where I had read maybe six or eight books on the pre-1948 period
of the Israeli Palestinian conflict if you've read six to eight books on a topic like it's
easy to pretty good it's pretty easy to think yourself and pre-expert yeah and so I start making
like the first episode and the second episode and by the time I kind of you know I'm outlining
them and kind of put them together and by the time I kind of get up to like episode three or four
of like how I'm making my outlines now I've read like 20 or 30 books and I would look back at like
the first episode that I had put together when I'd read like six and I realized it was it was
hilariously bad like not just like you missed this little point here whatever but that you had
I had no idea what I was talking about and then when I you know I think all the time now about like
it's really easy to get me to pontificate for hours about some topic that I read one book about
you know and these are this is a topic that like I had read six or eight books on at the time
and having to look back and realize it I knew nothing about it like the most basic kind of
had you already recorded a part number one you just laid out the notes yeah okay here's the
right there's so glad that I that I took my time you know by the time I got through that entire six
episode series you know I read close to a hundred books parts of another couple hundred almost
2000 you know academic papers and articles and essays and diaries and things like I just I read
almost everything that I could find on it to a point where I would get a new book and I would read it
or a new paper and I would read it and I would be glad if I would get like one more little tidbit out of that
and so I felt pretty good about that series when it was finished and a lot of people you know
have enjoyed it obviously I'm glad I caught you early when you could still respond to emails
was that you that said me that I should listen to you I don't think it was I don't think so
I don't think it was I think it was somebody else which is pretty random because
uh I mean at that time I know when we started this podcast 18 I saw this figure 18% of
America was listening to podcasts so you were before that so maybe it was 15 or 12% of people
for so for somebody of two have heard your podcast and then my podcast and then connect us on social
media that's pretty freaking impressive and it was you know I never expect anybody to listen to it
like I didn't just never I'm not an authority on anything I don't have any credentials you know
or anything and I it just I it never occurred me and it was gonna was gonna be listening to it and um it was
yeah it was a lot to handle when people started listening to it and start writing me emails I've got
an emails from from Israeli Defense Force active duty guys running patrols in the last bank
who have written me and said that like this maybe sympathize with the Palestinians more right that's
it dude who that matters that's a guy who like is gonna be dealing with these people tomorrow on
patrol and I've gotten emails from people from Arabs Muslims all over the Middle East who said
I never I never thought about the situation that the Jews were in in that way before and I'm like
it's a it feels like it's a pretty heavy responsibility but at the same time like it's you know
it makes it so that like you really feel like okay I got to I got to make sure that I'm
saying things that I mean and then I'm putting the amount of work in this that it deserves so one of the
things that I I do that my one of my recent ones took a long time the Jim Jones one that I'm doing
because I just I refuse to put out an episode until I feel like I can at least have a glance of
what it would be like to put myself in the shoes of the people that I'm talking about and if I just
if there's people in there that I'm gonna be talking about who I just don't like or who I just have
can tempt form and sort of a cartoonish way which is how I felt about a lot of the people in
Jim Jones' movement for a while I just don't like these people they just elicit nothing but
negative emotions in me and I just refuse to make the episode until I could get through that you know
and try to figure out what are the circumstances that these people could be looking at that could
make the decisions that they're making make sense to them at the time and you know that can be really
hard to do like you know I've been reading a whole lot about how I'll cut in a rack and all that
stuff now and I that's I mean that's I don't know if I'm gonna get through that one you know and
read about Zarkali and some of these guys where it's just this is you know it's another level of
sadism yeah and I don't I don't feel like I need to get to a point where I can you know where I can
empathize with them before I can talk about it but I do at least one understand like the social
conditions in ideological you know parameters that that's structure somebody's thinking in a way that
that you know leads them to think that that's a course of action that makes sense you know yeah
you obviously must be seeing connections between Jim Jones and just the cult mentality go you
yeah because that's essentially what what you're dealing with and what you said earlier about you know
when you're young and you don't really know which direction to take and then all of a sudden somebody
shows up that you know like we've been saying the whole time you you also know the rules the game
well when somebody shows up and says hey I got the rules for the game here they are and this is what
you need to do to win yeah then it becomes a very easy to kind of sweet people into it and they
offer I mean I think one of the biggest things is they offer people an identity you know identity
something that in some ways we're not really comfortable talking about in in society these days we
find it to be kind of dangerous social identity the way people the ways that people tend to
connect themselves with larger groups and and movements it's something that we look at as
pretty dangerous for pretty for pretty reasonable you know we have reasons for that right we look
back at something like World War II and we see how you know a group of people starting to get really
really serious about who we are and our identity can really go off the rails right not you say what
uncomfortable talking about that but I mean there's another side okay I was gonna say because we've got
like people whose number one thing in life is the identity with whatever group it is right and so it's
it let's say maybe not that we're uncomfortable with it but did it something that is volatile you know
and when we do talk about it it's usually charged with a lot of emotion one way or the other
and so rather than and it's usually attached to you know ideas of historical grievance and
things like that so we'll say that you know a group that has some has some grievance they it's okay
for them to sort of identify in a group manner things like that but rather than just talking about
it as a psychological need that people have I mean when you come up as a kid like I did where you know
you're just you're just kind of pasting an identity together out of random bits people that
pass through your life of things you see on TV book you read you're just kind of pasting
something together it's not like you know a good strong nuclear families a little cocoon where you can
start to develop emulate your parents ideally if there's somebody that you want to emulate and kind of
figure out you know where where there's room for your own individuation and so forth but we don't have that
you're kind of just pasting something together and you grew up in the idea of like who am I or who are we as
a people and you can one of the early Israel Palestine ones when I was kind of talk about how
you know the Zionists are pulling people from all over Jews from all over Europe and trying to get
them to think of themselves is like you know this is a time when like German Jews didn't really
like Polish Jews and American Jews kind of looked down all of them in certain ways and to pull
all these people together and be like no no no no this is us like this is who we are we're a people
and it takes it's a mysterious kind of alchemical process like how that works and it can come
apart really easily and I mentioned how what's the difference between you know what is it that makes
America you know you know where we say we don't just say this is America we say we're Americans right
and what's the difference between 300 million people who just happen to live near each other in the
middle of North America and this place called America with people who are Americans you can
cooperate and trust each other in various ways that allow us to sort of live next sort of total
strangers without killing each other which we think of it's like well why would we kill each other
it's like we'll go try that in most of history if those people weren't members of your tribe you're
not living next door to them you know I have a Palestinian friend who several years ago we were
down in a place in LA having having lunch or breakfast or something Sunday morning beautiful
day and we're you know sitting out on the patio and there's just a bunch of people it's a
wonderful little little meal and all of a sudden I catch you just kind of looking around and
I say what's on your mind what are you thinking about and she said this place she's from the
Middle East right she says this place like here this could never happen in my country and I just
kind of looked around and yeah sure enough like over here you've got at this table like you know
to white people to black people having a meal together over here you've got like two gay dudes
having breakfast together just all different types of people they don't know each other they're not
related to each other um and they're just they're all good it's all good it's totally stable and totally
normal and if anybody fell down people would go to see what was wrong with them and you know it's
not that people don't care about each other in other parts of the world it's at their you know
their level of trust for people outside their group and what is defined as us is something that's
typically a lot narrower you know I'm sure this is uh we'll talk about this in a future time when we
get into when you had to talk to the sheaks and Romadi and stuff we had to work through you had to
work through it a whole tribal system that plays no role over here you know we just don't have anything
like that over here and when we when we have like little versions of it with like uh you know
um say like the Italian mafia back in the day or something where there's still this sort of
in group mentality and stuff that starts to it's hard to keep that together in the United States and
a lot of the institutions we have are kind of designed to break down those subloilties so that you know
there's this broader national loyalty that we all kind of devote ourselves to you know the half
fields and McCoyes have to figure out how to uh how to you know how to put their differences aside
and get on the same landing craft and go storm the beaches in Normandy you know they got to figure
how to do that and we take that kind of stuff for granted because we're so far along that process
here but you know you go to a lot of the world and it's not something you can take for granted at all
and I think that um how I grew up kind of um it it it it it it it it it pushed me in the direction
of being interested in those kind of things you know um wanting to belong to something trying to
figure out um what makes a community work or what makes a family work or what makes a country work
as opposed to one that just doesn't work what's different so not better people over here
than they are over here they're just they you know um there's little thing you know do you trust
your neighbors um you know do you uh just have you know are your concentric circles of concern
sort of expanded enough to the you know where they get to the point uh that they include people
that maybe you don't know but that you still consider at least relative to somebody way over there like
one of us you know and where does that where do those circles of concern end you know do they
end at the tribe well you're never you're never a hell of a time trying to put together like a
functioning nation state if that's the problem if that's if that's the case you know you and um you know
if it ends it a lot of people it ends at themselves you know and um I don't think people generally
want to be that way though I think they want people and and uh something to identify with into
a long too and to kind of hand themselves over to most people I think most people um um they uh
they long for something to serve and something to give themselves to but they look around and you know
um they just again they're waiting for something that beam of sunlight to shine down on it and just
this is the thing and that's usually never gonna happen and uh but I think that's what people are
seeking you know I think people want to sacrifice I think people want to serve something and um um
you know they spend their lives looking for something and we're maybe not looking hard enough maybe
that's the wrong way to look at they want it but they don't necessarily go looking for it and it's
uh it's interesting times it's interesting times because you can kind of get by without being
linked into something and so everyone can kind of get by without being linked into something but
then they have a certain void of being linked into something and then you know it's like when you
go to prison like when you go to prison you're gonna join a gang but you know pretty much you're
gonna join a gang that's what's gonna happen if you're gonna survive period like that's what's
happening you're gonna you know and it's gonna be by race that's what's gonna happen and then you'll
get out and it's like it's okay you know like that's uh that's a really interesting microcosm
to look at but and there you need to do it to survive so all of a sudden you get in there and next thing
you know you're getting bolts tattooed on your neck because you're you know you're going a b that's the
way it's gonna be the the the the thing is now all of a sudden you're part of a group well in the
in the civilian world you don't have to be a part of anything to survive so you have some kind of
you have some kind of a void right or I say it is possible that people have some kind of a void
where they are looking to be a part of something and that's why you know you get whether it's you know
ISIS jihadists and by the way those are people some of those ISIS jihadists leaving normal
you know first world countries to go and be part of a death cult you know that's why you get
jammed jones that's why you get these things unfolding because there's some kind of a void that
people have when they want to be connected to other people and they can't figure it out and when the
when they when that light gets shine down well it's a light that's getting shine down by a bad
person's there was an interview I saw I never forget they were interviewing one of the guys who had
gone from Belgium perfectly nice life in Belgium to go join ISIS and they asked him why he did it and he said
Belgium is boring and I think to a lot of people well I think to a lot of people on one hand that
makes no sense to them but I think on on the other hand there's this deep recess where it
makes some sense to them I think people do understand to some degree it's like when you know it's
like when you remember when sometimes you could live on a dirt road maybe so I got to know if you
had direct neighbors but like the power would go out right and the power would go out and people would
walk out like on their front lawns and kind of look around like whoa you almost have this sense of
connectedness with your neighbors that you don't have on a normal day you know because everything
kind of shuts in you kind of realize like whoa we're just here together like at this point wonder what's
gonna happen and it's kind of cool yeah you know you have enjoyed I've been through plenty of power
outlets now out out of just now in the California and you're right power goes out people are like oh
let's walk out especially I used to live on one street in O.B. where it was like a it was a real
neighborhood street you know a lot of families and all of our kids play together and the power went out
news like 30 seconds later everyone's out the front yard looking around and what's going on yeah absolutely
and so I think there is something where our societies can become so overcoded and so structured
that people people think they long for some instability but you know that happens in countries where
people don't know what instability is yeah you know and when it when it comes to like being part of a
group and again for me going into the seal teams was me absolutely trying to become or what or
trying to become part of a group and then being part of that group and knowing what I had to do
to be a better part of that group and and you know going back to your earlier behavior which I was
saying was so you know I can picture it I know it and I and I did it you know I was one of those guys
too you know I was one of those kids when I was young you know I wanted to kind of test the patience
of my boss especially if my boss was a person you know whether it was my chief or my
L.P. or my Ptune commander or my you know if they weren't quite the the respected individual
then I would absolutely push buttons the the big differences in the teams there's a way to deal with it
really directly like you're gonna get tightened up and you're gonna realize and the thing that they
put on you is like oh you oh you eventually it goes from hey even if let's say no one respects
the chief or no one respects the L.P. or whatever eventually someone's gonna say amen that's the
Ptune chief I remember someone saying that to me no no no wait I take that back I said that to someone
I said I said that's the Ptune L.P. and I said it as if are you absolutely insane like you
don't talk back to the seal platoon leading petty officer I don't care that just don't want that
that will never happen again am I making myself clear that's E5 Mafia scenario right there
that's E5 Mafia scenario so the other thing and I just I know we're gonna wrap up here
you're a straight up what is it auto die-dact yeah straight up auto die-dact of the first order
like what is a auto die-dact teacher self-taught self-taught you know what did you did you
go to college at some point now I went for a little while and like I said I didn't know what I
wanted to major and I was gonna go into the Navy as after post high school yeah right after I went
for a year but I just kind of took some classes did fine but didn't know where I was going with it so
moved on and you and so you you're self-educated everything that you talk about which is
vast you know I get I get emails from people who want to start podcasts all the time and they say
you know I want to start a history podcast or this kind of podcast there are any like tips you can
give me I know I could never do one like yours but and I tell these people like I'm smart enough right
I'm smart enough that if you're explaining something to me I'll be able to understand what you're
talking about I'm not some genius I just pound away on it every day like if I'm not happy with something
like I tell them if the fact that you like my podcast and that you're understanding and getting down
with like the concepts that I'm talking about shows you that you can work with these concepts everything
that I'm talking about you're capable of talking about it's just a matter of like putting the
work in and getting it done and showing up every day and grinding and that's how I get my podcast
done you know I don't I don't just whip these things out like I got a my genius brain or anything like
that you know I just pound away on them are you a fast reader no not really I'm like a I'm not
like a medium average because I when I'm reading something I tend to get in character you know so I'll
kind of read like in like if I'm reading a novel I'll literally be doing the voices in my head but
even if I'm reading a if I'm reading one of your books like it's your voice at your pace
yeah speaking in my head and so so it's not exactly the speed read I'm the worst I read books
which I have to do all the time and I'm reading at the pace that I basically talk okay maybe not
as bad I mean I get it when I read when I talk a lot of times I talk slowly and a lot of times I
have some pauses we'll say sure pauses pauses I don't have those pauses when I read but
man I don't read as fast as I wish I I just read all the time I probably read for the last gosh
for the last 20 years I've probably read six hours a day I read all the time you read six hours
a day I would say probably cumulatively yeah like I mean I read if I have if I'm if I'm at work
waiting for a meeting to start and take in 15 minutes and I'm reading my book getting some time in
you know are you paper books or are you digital books both you know I travel a lot for work and so
if I can get it on Kindle sometimes I will I prefer paper but a lot of the stuff that I read
is not available digitally so I just have to order some old ass book you know like um that
Amazon doesn't sell anymore it's coming from some other seller or something when uh yeah I've got
I've got a pretty interesting library I how many books do you think you have in your library?
Last time I moved because this is this is the worst part is when you got to move and you got a
big stack of books um last time I moved I gave away about 600 and I would say I probably have about
three or four thousand left and and when I get more room I'm gonna have more like I just you know
and I've I'd say I've read like 70% of them and I'll you know some of them I've got for reference
but um I've got this fantasy where one day when I've got a kid you know I'm gonna have this room
it's just gonna be wall the wall books and there's gonna be books kind of that are more adult
level that are gonna be higher up that they can't reach and when they want to like give me that
both of them they'll be like no you know when you're old enough to reach it you can read it
and just make it this place so that you know there was no kind of I wasn't in any kind of
intellectual environment or anything like that when I was a kid and so to have like one of my
kids uh to be able to go into a room like that and just it's normal that there's like a room full of
books and you can pick one up and there's so much stuff in it that's like my fantasy and so um I
get rid of books that I I think I can probably get again really easily you know if I read it
I don't think I have a copy of Moby Dick if I want to get one I can get it for $2 on Amazon
I keep the ones that are gonna be kind of a pain to get again and um yeah I love having them around
that makes sense though with the six hours a day especially if you're into reading
because like you know consider how you bust out your phone like anytime there's dead space
in your day most of us are like bossing on our phone checking is checking that you know but
if your mind is all automatic like let me let me get back to that book or whatever
oh yeah you'd be reading all the time especially if you're actively like doing that like that's what
you're into you know so you and that's and so that'll be in addition to the time that you
designate to read or habitually you know a lot of people you know they get those
time trackers so their phones and see how much time they spend on their phone and there's been
in several hours a day and you know if instead you're just pulling out your book and getting a
couple more pages in yeah it adds up no I'll read for a few hours in the evening you highlight
it depends so I'll highlight books that I've already read but if I'm reading it for the first time
then I don't do anything like that what I'll do I used to do that and then I realized I wasn't
retaining stuff nearly as well I was building an external structure you know for me to you know be
able to reference things but I this wasn't retaining as well so the first time I read a book I'll
usually read a section or a chapter and then I'll stop and I'll just write something up about it
and that'll kind of hammer it into place in my head and then I'll read the next section
and keep doing that and then when you know maybe I'm putting together a podcast episode I'll go
back to books I've already read and then I'm highlighting and underlining and marking of how
do you organize your books so that you can find them I mean when you've got what do you say 3,000
books you almost need to go do e-despairs right now it's just serious because this bothers
like with me I'll be doing a podcast about World War or whatever World War one and I'll be like
oh there's this one part in this one book and I want to intro with this and I'll be like now I
have to go find it and I don't know how many books I have I don't have 3,000 but I have enough
that they're in multiple locations double stacked and it just it drives I got to figure out the
do-e-dit decimal system for my house cause it gets crazy. I spent a lot of time around my
books so I kind of know where they're all at. I you know sometimes I'll just when I'm waiting
I'm letting the thoughts do in my head I don't want to read anything necessarily to like put it
out or maybe it's a half form thought that I'm kind of waiting for it to come together looking
for something to kind of attach it to I'll just kind of walk around and look at my books and pull
one out and flip through it and put it back so I kind of know where everything is just it's like
that that's my world the books are like kind of ever since I've been a kid like that's been
my world sort of so it's like my primary point of reference in a lot of ways and what about um like
just diving around on the internet how how do you discriminate when you Google search you know
whatever how do you have any good methodology for saying because I like I'll be I'll go down the
rabbit hole you know and I guess some people I mean I guess everyone goes down the rabbit
hole sometimes on the internet but I go deep on the internet and it's hard to discriminate like
okay should I click this link or not do you have any advice? No I'm not good at it I have to um
I have to be very very I have to be a fascist when it comes to controlling my internet usage because
I don't to me it's like you know it's not like I don't I'm I don't I'm not like addicted to it
or anything but I don't I don't know how to like structure my usage once I get in there and I start
clicking things there's always enough click and I just I will end up where oh it's been three hours
that I've been on my phone today so I like until recently I didn't have a I didn't have a smartphone
I just had a normal flip phone just until recently and like literally like a couple weeks ago
and it was just because I just don't want that I just didn't want it my life I don't want it anywhere near me
I just you know it's yeah I don't want to get on that cliche topic but like when you see a family
sitting at a table and everyone's on their phones I just can't deal with it I grew up in a house
with no dining room table you know where everybody just kind of did their own thing and like so
just when people aren't paying attention to each other and aren't being there together with one another
it just it turns me off and and I find man I'll tell you one thing there is nothing that makes me
that that deteriorates my my mind like my ability to recall and structure thoughts and sit still
and contemplate something more than if I spend a bunch of time on the internet especially on the phone
like if I like I had a smartphone back in the day and I would fart around on it sometimes
so maybe I'm reading articles or whatever but just something about the way that the information
is coming at me I would put the thing down and for the rest of the day I would be much harder to
sit down and actually read a book for like a long period of time I got rid of that thing a week or two
later I could just sit down again read for three four hours of a time like I was a kid again and
yeah there's something about them that again it might be a disciplined thing you have to figure out
a structure through right away but I don't know I don't have any tips. When I went to college I was
in English major and there were times on the weekends where and one one semester I took five
English classes and it was really dumb and I should have never done it because I would spend you
know like eight to ten hours reading on Saturday and then eight to ten hours reading on Sunday
I actually hurt my eyes for a while it was it was crazy but I did not did not like it I did not
like it like reading sitting down reading for six hours for me and then sometimes I still have to
do it because because of the podcast you know it's like okay we're doing a podcast it's on this book
we're doing it in you know four days and you know there's almost never been a point with this podcast
where it's like oh don't worry we don't have a podcast do you know you and and Dan Carlin
who are like oh I'll put it out of podcast whenever I'm damn well ready that's you know a
luxury that I don't have I'm putting this thing out and so I've had to read books
you know read really long books for me and you know it's a you know two ten hours days and I just
I'm not happy and it is what it is because you know you kind of owe it sometimes it's work and
I kind of benefit a little bit because of the way I structure my reading I usually I don't just pick a book
that sounds cool on a topic and pick it up and read it usually I'll study a particular topic right
and I'll start diving really deep into it and the books that I read are sort of hanging ornaments
on that tree and adding little pieces to that puzzle and then as I'm doing that on that topic
I'll start to have questions that are outside that topic right I start reading a lot about gym
Jones and people's temple and then you want to know more about the 1960s and like that you know
the movements that this is coming out of and so I'm starting to you know accrue all these questions
that are kind of tangential to the topic at hand and I'm putting them there and once I've kind of you know
pretty soon I get to the point where now I'm getting impatient to go over to this other topic and move on to that
or maybe there's several topics and so I'll wrap this up and then I'll go over there and I'm already
excited about this and moving into that area and I've already got questions that now these books are answering and so
it's like a path that I'm following you know it's not sort of just random you know randomness
yeah the arc of the current episodes of Margar made the arc so it's about gym Jones but man
you are going deep and solid like I've explained I was explaining it to like my family
specifically I'm explaining to my my mom and dad over I guess it was over Christmas or something
but anyways I was like I was like explaining what the podcast was what it was about
and the path that you took and when you're talking about the black Panthers I mean you know
when you go from gym Jones and then that thread ties into the black Panthers it's pretty crazy and
you know what's his name Reverend Divine yeah Reverend the whole thing on Reverend Divine I mean it's
it's epic it's an epic tale and each one of them is just this thread that just gets pulled and pulled and
I mean I'm tracking you I'm tracking you I'm like oh I see where this is going okay oh we're
gonna open that door you know that door there it's wide open wide open and that's the thing that I
think is cool and I think that's what you know when I first started listening to Margar made I you know
since I read so much what I realized is I realized exactly what you were doing I realized I was like
okay every single one of those little foot notes every single because let's say I'm reading about
a battle right hey you know what I opened up with today what I opened up today I opened up with
about face for trepid a million times and I actually I actually talked about easy company
under the command of of desert area right and the first time I read this was probably
15 years ago I don't know how long it's a long time ago but what I do as I pulled the thread
because that's all it says it just says uh so did easy company under desert area in the fight
up on the hill up north that's what it says well who's who's that well that's a thread that
when I did when I was reading this section I was like oh I'm a pole in that well it turns out you
know army captain it turns out metal vana recipient turns out you can find out exactly what's
going on in that battle so when you start pulling these threads out it starts to turn into
a different level of knowledge and that's what I so even when I listen to your first series of
Margar made I realize exactly what you're doing I said oh every single time he comes across a little
a little hanging piece of information that's not closed he's gonna pull on that thread
until it gets called until he figures out where it leads to where it comes from what what the
situation is behind that and that's that's what you know that's what really impressed me with what
with with your podcast and that's why you know you and I are about to record some podcasts of
our own kind of going off on a on a tangent it's an idea that I had for a while which was
well it was this I talked about it on this podcast where I talked about the fact that and I was
I was complaining about the school system and the educational system in America and my biggest
complaint about the educational system in America well there's a bunch of different ones but my
biggest one is that when you learn you don't you don't get taught the context and the
listen everything that you learn is tied together everything every single thing you learn about
anything in human history is connected there's a thread that ties it all together there's a thread
that you can trace back and we never learn that thread and I don't care if you're talking about
learning mathematics or straight sciences or philosophy or English literature they're all connected
they're all connected and if you can connect those threads for me that's how I learn right
when I want to learn something I just don't want to learn the facts because that's just memorization
I want to actually understand what's behind them and that's where I think our educational
system sometimes falls short and then you transpose that onto our current news media which are
current news media what do they do there's no context or understanding it's a two-dimensional
picture of what's happening today and people don't understand the thread that connects all these things
how they tie together and that's why you know when I had this crazy idea of like hey wait a second
if I want to talk about things that are going on and I want to pull the thread on some of these
things I should get see if Darryl Cooper can come down and give me a hand with it so I guess
is that an announcement yeah we're going to make another few pot we're going to make a podcast we're
going to call the thread we're going to pull the thread on some things and well it'll be out
I think it'll be out yeah it'll be out when when you're listening to this podcast you'll be
able to listen to another podcast called the thread what else Darryl what do we miss
I think maybe the last thing I would I would talk about is um
has to with what you were just saying what's the thing that schools leave out is they teach
kids facts and they don't turn it into a story for them right and that's something that I think
when we talk earlier about people having purpose or goals or direction in their life
another way of saying that is that they're inhabiting a story right there's something in the
future that you're heading towards that means that you've got up again in middle and and you know
things like you're living in a story and a lot of people are not living in any kind of a story
a lot of people ask me why a name my podcast martyr me and my friend Danielle Ebelelli
who has helped me out a lot with it he uh he's got the thickest Italian accent anybody's ever heard
he cannot pronounce it for the life of him so every talk's better on his podcast people always
have to write him and ask him what it is and he tried to ask me early on you to change the name of this
podcast but I named it that for a reason right so I mentioned earlier at the beginning you asked me
how many sisters I had and I had two at the time I have one now and um my I had a sister in 2009
early 2009 that committed suicide me and my other sister my oldest sister two years younger than me
um she and I you know we we made it out right we came out of a pretty dark and difficult
situation we made it out she was up for homecoming queen her senior year and I was there at the
football game watching her and you know it was it was a really incredible in the moment just knowing
everything that she had been through and come out of to see that like that what's going on she was a
good water polo player she was popular at school you know she went on to college and doing very
well my youngest sister you know she didn't make it out she struggled she always struggled a little
bit more had things handled things a little bit more difficult had a little bit more difficult time
and and we lost her in 2009 and I had mentioned that my family when my mom was first having
me and my sisters was not really a family that was together she didn't have a lot of support
there's something that took time to kind of build up and uh people individual
branches of the family you know this aunt and uncle that aunt and uncle would start to get their
act together this one got their act together but we were never really like together as a family
and my mom as well she got her act together for last 20 years she's she's I'm very
very I couldn't be more proud of her she's been through a lot a lot more than I have and she
suffered more than I have for sure and you know she's doing very very well now she you know
manages a croaker grocery store and she's very into it she'll let go to war for like croaker grocery
stores and how they're better than you know Albert sins or whatever and very very proud of her
and so but we hadn't gotten to a point where all the different threads of the family had found their way
back together again right people kind of gotten their individual acts together but it was just like
long-term kind of animosity and little bickering that had accumulated over the years when people
you know we're not we're not sort of living living they're their best lives say that it accumulated and
my sister passed in 2009 and my family came together it was the first family reunion I think I
could ever really remember right it was my sister's funeral everybody came together for that and
at that time it was as if like that event it it's like everybody just kind of looked at each other
and realized it like whatever has happened in the past like none of that matters like we all
you know we're a family we need to look out for each other we all love each other and we need to
be a family again and you think about like what is the difference between
a martyr and a murder victim right it's just a story you're telling about right a martyr and just a
person who dies it's just you tell one story about one another story about another what's the
difference between you know it occurred to me that if my sister's death led to kind of the rebirth
of my family you know and it really has done that it's it's everybody now they're just happy
grandkids they're all playing together and it's just a beautiful thing that if that could come out of
that then you know her death could be turned into a sacrifice you know where something good could
come out of something that really just by itself is just a horrible thing you know my sister struggled
her whole life she never really had anybody who you know was kind of putting her first in the way
that you know like when when when the kids would get farmed out to different relatives and stuff I
would go somewhere my other sister Lindsay would go somewhere and it was kind of rewarding to have
us around you know we would do well in school and just like whatever it was it was some it was a
little bit rewarding my youngest sister she was just she was harder she had a temper she was just
kind of like a more wild personality it was kind of just more of a more of an ordeal than a
in less rewarding and so there'd be times where we get farmed out because things at home we're
starting to collapse you know really badly and Lindsay and I would go to one answer another and
we get split up in Jessica my youngest would stay with my mom and those are some pretty dark times
there's a reason we were getting farmed out during those periods and so she was always more attached
to my mom and Lindsay and I the two oldest we were always kind of we didn't intend this you know
it just kind of happened for whatever reason we kind of bonded more and were closer to each other
then either of Swarade Jessica we didn't exclude her anything like that it just kind of naturally
we were kind of closer and she always knew that and felt it you know that she
she that Lindsay and I were closer to each other than we were to her that when we would get
farmed out to different relatives like you know people were like happy to take me and Lindsay and
they would have taken Jessica if it was like look she has to go somewhere but you know if she
didn't want to come you know because she was attached to my mom nobody was going to really like
push for it or anything and so she grew up her whole life kind of always being kind of on the outside
and always being kind of thought of just not ever being anybody's first priority you know it's
just something that a kid needs at least for for some period you know and um and she struggled with
that and you know I got out I went to the Navy and I'm just happy to be out of the house and
doing my thing in the Navy and Lindsay's in college and doing well and we kind of know that Jessica's
still struggling back home a little bit she's back home she with my mom's totally cleaned up
by this point and she's trying to get my sister you know help her get herself together
but you know she's struggling she has a hard time she's she gets pregnant with my nephew
and inexplicably the doc she she has a bunch of back pain while she's pregnant with my
nephew the doctor puts her on oxy cotton my nephew comes out Jones and it birth
and she didn't she she was never able to kick that right and it kind of did generated in the
common way where she's hooked on that and she starts becoming you know difficult to deal with for
people who love her my mom wants to help her but she doesn't know if like you know at a certain
point or you enableing you know at a certain point you have to put your foot down you know she's
stealing out of my purse to do things when she's at my grandparents house you know she's trying
to raid their medicine cabinet and so she's got friends that are telling her you know and
other people in her own her own mind you know just telling her like look at a certain point you
have to give some tough love and and it makes sense you know that is what you have to do right
at a certain point you are enabling and she did that one time when my sister came to the house
my my nephew is staying with my mom by this point and my sister came to the house one time in the
winter it's in Montana it's a cold winter and she wanted to stay there and my mom had like been
preparing herself before she knew that like when the moment came she wasn't gonna have the strength
to say no right so she had been kind of coaching herself up like when it comes you just have to
here's what you have to say here's the script you know unless you're willing to do this this
and this then no do do do do do just you have to go stay with your friends or whatever it is
and so she shows up and she wants to stay with my mom and my mom tells her you know
can't have you do it the last several times you've been lying this and that and she didn't
have any girls to go that night and so she went to the rescue mission therentown and she took some
pills and she died there alone and it's just the most abjectly awful story you know I was
I was in the Navy I kind of knew something was going wrong but you know I didn't you're just
you're living your own life and to say that like you know when I look back on it because I feel
tremendous amount of guilt obviously thinking to myself now and the aftermath that you know I should
just drop everything and just said you're coming to stay with me and focus on this a hundred
percent right just because what else matters when this is the end but you don't think that that's
the end you're just kind of you know you hear that she's struggling but she's not struggling at
bad right when I would call her it would seem okay so I just kind of out of sight out of mind I was
living my own life and wasn't focusing on it and nobody was focusing on it and that was the point
nobody was other than my mom and it's just an awful story it's a girl who was never put first
who came out of like a very difficult set of circumstances and you know one out of three she just
didn't make it out and yet that horrible story that ended in such a tragic way it saved my family
you know and it brought my whole extended family that you know when when I say like it wasn't
just like people had gotten an arguments with each other and this got on the putter beside it was that
whole the whole thread that had brought my family together my great grandmother coming from Serbia when
she was seven years old my great grandfather coming out of Mexico just and then it just degenerates
and breaks down and by the time it gets to like the generation before me it's just this typical
like American broken down family scenario right that it just fallen apart it was just it had fallen apart
and that and that when we all came together for her funeral that it was as if
everything like everything was redeemed but by you know during that period it was like everything
that had been bad and broken was suddenly repaired and something that it wasn't like a
not repairs and not the right way to say it because it wasn't like there was this there was this family
there that had gotten broken up and now it got fixed it didn't exist before so something that was
born out of that tragedy and I realized that you know if I could it doesn't clear up all the
negative feelings obviously but if I could see it in that way that her death could become a
sacrifice you know something that she was the one who who gave her life there was you know
obviously she wasn't thinking of it this way but she gave her life so that our family
could could be born out of that and and that the stories we tell ourselves about the things we do
in the lives we're living you know very often or the things that those are really what to find
us you know and I think a lot of people aren't living any story and they're very vulnerable to
people who come along and say I got a story for you you know I got something for you right here
maybe it's Jim Jones maybe it's a Jehaadi maybe it's you know some racial group whatever it is I got
a story for you you know that puts you right in the middle and takes you seriously it makes you
important in a way that you've never been to anybody before makes it very vulnerable to those things
and I think that something I hope we can do with the thread is is is tell some of these stories
you know in a way that kind of you know you and I have both been around the world a lot and being
around the world it teaches you that whatever is going on that's wrong around here there's a
whole lot of good there's a whole lot of good you know around here in this country and our society
and the people around us and there's an opportunity and that and that and that when people
don't feel that way they look around here at their families or their communities or their
country and they don't feel good about it that's just a story too you know and you can there are
better stories out there to tell that can frame your own life and you know your community's life
in your country's life in ways that you know are a lot more fulfilling and I would say a lot
true or then some of the ones that you know tend to tend to be undermining so that's something I
hope we can do well if that's the goal then I'm sure we can
yeah it's very humbling you know because I um my sister was a good girl she was a sweet girl
and um you know I I feel no sense of pride in the fact that you know I came out of
rough circumstances and managed to like make it out and now I'm you know securely in the middle class
or whatever however you want to frame but I feel no sense of pride in that because I know people
who were better than me and who were stronger than me and who had better hearts than I do
who didn't make it and that if there were a couple times growing up or in my early adulthood
when if I had ziggged instead of zagging or even when I where I just I got purely lucky you know
where I you know early 20s I get into a big fight out in town and the cops decide that it's
they're just gonna let me roll out you know whereas if you know if I was five maybe a darker
color skin that instead they'd be pulling my ass in and throwing me in jail and then I'm not going
into the navy and then I'm not just a whole train of things starts to happen you know where I just
got I very very very lucky I know people who are way better way smarter way stronger than I am
who ended up going completely off the rails and it deserve has nothing to do with it you know did they
deserve it well they made decisions yeah sure I made decisions but a lot of it just came down
to pure luck you know and it makes me it makes me very it's humbling it's humbling and it makes
me I try to as much as I know that you know you can get into a toxic mindset self-limiting
kind of toxic mindset by feeling like a victim so I you know I don't support that kind of thing but
I it does make me very I try to open up my heart to people who find themselves in difficult
circumstances because I know that is an act of God it is a you know but by the grace of God that
that's where I could have been you know and I I attribute none of it to you know my own and again
yeah you have to make choices but very easily could have gone a different way with the same
exact choices that I made yeah there's there's always going to be some level of luck involved
for sure and there's also like a little tiny, minuscule decisions that you make for whatever
reason that you make them and sometimes those have a trajectory that who last the dress your life
and it could be good sure like when I decided to join the Navy because let's face it that's a
it seems like a really really big decision and I guess it is but at the same time you know
there's a split second in time where you go you know what I'm gonna do this but that there's a split
second where it's a coin toss and you go you know what I'm gonna do this I had by a friends that
were right alongside with the only I'm gonna go and then they didn't go in and things did not work
out well for them at all and so when you look at like all these little decisions and just like
you said I mean what you know how many people's lives have been ruined by you know the one DUI that they got
which they crashed and they hid and they this that the other thing how many people's lives have been
ruined by whatever whatever momentary decision that they made that just just it went wrong and
you know you saw that combat all the time you know I've said many times there's there's times where I
made bad decisions and and like got home and said to myself well got away with that I'd never
should have got away with that I can't believe I got away with that got so lucky and there's other
times we make the right decisions and things still go wrong and so there's absolutely some level
of luck in there and what you have to do as a human being is recognize that and then every chance
you get to lean that thing in the right direction you got to take it and as soon as the soon you
recognize that in your life the better off you're gonna be because the sooner you recognize all right
this could be the bad decision that I make this could be it you know I I used to occasionally
if I had a seal who was working for me that was like I could see where he's heading and you know
a brief I'd give him this brief right here hey this is what I want you to do I don't want you to
dump shit I don't I don't want you to do anything that's stupid do you understand what's the
world the words that are coming out of my mouth and that's kind of what they need to do here look
I don't want you to do anything that's stupid do you understand what I'm saying and that kind of
thing because if you put that as a broad overarching when you're 21 years old if you say look at
I'm gonna I'm just gonna try not to do anything that's stupid that's actually some really
solid advice to go off of and if I wish I would have had somebody there's a lot of
decisions that I made that I look back now where I think could have gone bad I want to look back
out of it if somebody would have just said don't do anything say don't do dumb shit
somebody would have told me that it would have helped me out a lot it would have helped me out a lot
to and and again I was just I got lucky along the way and the time that I did something stupid I didn't
crash the car the time I did something else stupid I didn't you don't fall into this
crevasse that I thought oh I'd be cool I'll jump over this thing or whatever the case may be
you make dumb decisions if someone saying to you hey don't do dumb shit it's actually
really really good advice because at the end of the day there's that that sometimes it's coin toss
and do yourself a favor and don't flip that coin if you don't have to and then to what you're
saying when you look at somebody whenever I see somebody like that's that I can see they're
vended up in a bad situation it's like I know that there were some coin tosses in there that
that came up bad I know it that's what happens and the difference between you know me and that
person that's strong out on meth you know sitting in this corner you know covered in their own piss
there's some coin tosses in there and so minimize those freaking coin tosses and then yeah you
got it to you look there's some luck involved make your freaking luck to you got to make your
freaking luck because you can't rely on that coin coming up the way you wanted to so get up
take control of what you know what you've been saying take control take ownership of what's going on
everything that you control control it don't let it go don't leave it up the chance you can't
not afford to do that you cannot afford to do that the coin tosses don't always go your way
with that probably a pretty good place to stop you know darel thanks for um thanks your service
thanks for coming on thanks for putting out great amazing information for people and
thanks for joining forces me to knock out some podcasts later thanks for having me on it's been
having to sit next to echo with those guns is inspiring me to go get the gym today so I was feeling a little
lazy but uh echo yes we want to take control over what we can take control of make our own luck
or we're gonna manufacture luck I think I said that to lay fabb in the other day oh no you don't
I told lay fabbin I can man you fact your time yeah I don't I don't I don't I don't follow we were
talking about something like do we have time for this do we have time for that and I was like I can
man you fact your time I will make literally make time how can we ever have time if we don't
make time or take time whatever matrix we want to control gink of truck what can we do how
you help us there are many ways right fitness physical mind and body fitness
good way to get that coin to kind of fall the way you wanted to oh yeah manufacture some
odds you can manufacture odds yeah yeah so anyway also capability big time capability reading
as it turns out increases your capability big time yeah so does jujitsu by the way
but I think we already knew that so while we're doing our jujitsu we're going to get a
ghee at least one my opinion and we're gonna get that from origin factually the best ghee in the
world that's why we're getting them from origin you also might want to support the entire
economy of this country by buying something that's made in America literally no yeah especially
right now you might want to support the economy you might want to support jobs coming back to this
country rebuilding an industry that was all but dead but it ain't dead anymore I just bought
two of those face masks you guys are making a black and a white legit yeah yeah that was a pivot
never be too beautiful doing your duty as an American a little pivot oh yeah yeah and that it's like
that was good when like I was watching that video or there I think there's more than one right about
the face masks of what pizza doing so it's interesting to see like you know under these kind of
more for lack of better term extreme circumstances what people and groups of people in companies are
doing you know and you can kind of tell a lot about I mean a lot I mean what does that even mean but
you can tell some things about some people and groups of people by what they do under certain
circumstances I think generally speaking that's true right but okay here's a little background so
we have a company it's called the origin we make clothes there is a virus going around America right
now called the coronavirus right now it is March 25th 2020 so this virus hit at first I had a
couple friends text me and say like hey you should make masks to protect people from this and I was like
oh and I talked to Pete my partner to origin and said hey man what do you think about making
masks and he kind of looked at it said well I guess we could what's the real you know what's the
real demand going to be blah blah blah blah and then a couple days later a few days later
the government starts saying look masks don't help they don't help and I'm like okay well I
say I don't worry about the masks don't help I don't want to be the guy that's trying to sell
something that doesn't work right so you know so we kind of abandon the idea and that's all
takes place in like a very short period of time all this because you guys tracking this new story
it's been changing on an hourly basis so then you fast forward two or three days and they're
saying not only should you wear a mask but you need to wear a mask and also we've got people in
healthcare and whatever that absolutely need these masks and there's no masks in America like
or there's a massive shortage so now I go back to Pete and say Pete bro it looks like these masks
are needed and he kind of percolated on it and my mind was stuck in like okay we got to make
a surgical mask like what you see on a surgeon way right Pete he said wait a second and he said oh let's
make he took our rash guard material because it's the other thing the CDC was saying if you don't
have a surgical mask just take a t-shirt or take a piece of bandana that's what they were saying and
so he said okay wait I think we can really help here but then Pete came up with the idea of making
a mask from a rash guard material kind of like I guess the word is a buff have you ever heard this
before okay so it's basically like a neck a gator let's another thing it gets called I don't know
what to call it but most people call it a buff anyways we put a little pocket in there so you could put
a filter if you can get one if not you can still just use the mask and it does help and the CDC
actually has numbers out like how much it helps if you just put a t-shirt it helps you know 20% if you
put a bandana and a t-shirt it helps 40% like they calculate this stuff so anyways that's what's
happening we we started making these masks people been buying them like crazy because you know we're
getting orders from hospitals we're getting orders from nurses we're getting orders from doctors like
that's and then we're getting orders from normal citizens as well but so that's what's happening
and the reason I'm not really I haven't really been promoting it is because it's it were
so we're sold out like we're making them as fast as we possibly can and and I mean pizza make I
think he's made four thousand of them today they're all already sold so we're gonna make him as
fast as we can we're gonna make his menus we can but we're trying to get him to the right people
and that's what's happening with that yeah and those masks are kind of important to when you
think of the big picture because I mean the initial thought where it's like where masks people
we like well you know I'll just sort of you know like I won't I'll be careful with where I breathe
or whatever my immune system whatever but the mask is kind of a two-way street where that protects
you but it protects it for sure is it's well that's something they said from time get go I know
from that go they said actually we don't think that though yeah here's where here's where I
is kind of like man I should have thought through this more from the get go they said you know
masks don't help but it will help to prevent spreading it if you have it you should wear it
and I'm like wait a second you're telling me that this will help someone not give it to me but if
I put it on it won't help me at all are you crazy hold on a second that doesn't make any sense
so I should have known that from the beginning but I didn't I didn't sus it out correctly
yeah and but in that kind of goes goes with it where it's like yeah it doesn't help me at
also it's more like that's like a secondary thought you know but I think collect like I said
big picture situation where collectively hey man we're all the more than we get everyone together yeah
everybody yeah and then so that's not that's not to mention okay what are all these secondary effects
like economy people going back to work all this stuff and were you part of that problem
were are you part of the problems spreading this whole thing or you're trying to sell exactly
right if you're part of helping not okay here comes the economy way quicker here comes people
going back to work you know all the secondary stuff but all you weren't all you were just like
you strong young guy who has a strong immune system we didn't care about any of this other stuff
you see I'm saying so it's like man you got to wear that mask or yeah and not even necessarily
wear the mask specific they're not seeing that I'm saying be part of the solution in this because
kind of the infarmed solution is it being that's part of being an American yeah and by the way
another thing like I just got this as a comment in here um peep put together a face mask like a
face shield with what's a clear plastic like printer paper what is it lamination paper something
like that he he put together a mask with that yeah a mask well you could go welding like
you kind of see you go that's kind of cool whatever guess what he's got he just got an organ like
off based off of him stapling this thing together uh the state of Maine just I think it was the state
of some some big governmental organization just ordered a thousand of them a thousand of these things
like that's where they're at they need protection and so it's been very it's been it's been
awesome and very humbling to have a little role in trying to help us get through this and shout out
to peep to the origin crew up there to all the all the folks in the factory that are actually
turning and burning and working two shifts we might even have to go to three to make as many of
these things as we can to get them out to America to help us get through this crisis situation
yeah do you have some nurse or health care worker out there where I want to those things that you
guys made like that's got a feel good it's it's awesome yeah and like I mean peep had a
man you know the the girls were making them like that Monday morning and filled up a box and got
them to boss and children hospital like that you know ASAP because that's where they're at and they're
reusable like you can put them in a washing machine you can't put a surgical mask or uh whatever
$2 surgical mask in the washing machine it'll be destroyed you can put these things in the washing
machine all day long what up now yeah and for me it for me to be the superficial twink on this one
but it looks kind of dope yeah it does like I'll have on the beach a lot and it's windy on my
beach a lot of the time you're just posting up in the origin mask yeah I wear that thing even after
the door to black out one or the black one I got a black one and a white one for me and my fiance
yeah so it's been it's been cool obviously it's and it's been made by the way we're not the
only company that's doing this is a bunch of company that have pivoted to helping out you know
what they're doing more advanced things they have the technology to make help with the ventilators
and help with some of the other but we're getting that's what we're doing that's what America's
doing right now which is awesome to see the meantime we do still have rash guards true the best
keys in the world as you said actually jeans a American made denim American made denim and that's
what's perfect that's what's that's what's awesome had we had we let everything go had peat not
rebuilt this had peat not maintained this loom and maintained more important than the loom is the
people right the stitches the folks that actually have the capability to build things in America
if we don't keep them who's gonna do this for us that's the backbone of America right there that's
the backbone of America is the folks on the front lines that have the skills to get this done
god bless them all send a little send a little blessing up to farming to Maine to our people
also supplements but we're more I'm not done we're more right so right is so the mask that's
cure at QRF right that's quick reaction force inbound sure yes outside the QRF scenario here are
like you said American denim jeans also supplements keep your body physically in the game joint warfare
krill oil cold war cold war we're both the boost immune system the front lines as it were
seems to be there I don't know if you take that name yet that's perfect
I always amazed and sometimes you you get an idea and you go fan that happened with the way of the
warrior kid like I had that idea and I said how can no one have thought of this oh my gosh I'm so lucky
and I just wrote it and put out their cold war cold war probably a year and a half ago
I was like hey man talk to be little I said hey man I am on the planes all the time I'm shaking
a bunch of people's hands all all line up and shake a thousand people's hands what's the germ
transfer that's happened right there come out major for sure come out as my friend deal
about what's so yeah so Brian put together that formula for cold war and yes and of course
you know we put it out say hey if you guys need some help with someone's like what are you doing
this won't stop coronavirus I'm like bro no no you are not slinging the cure to
I'm not slinging the cure to coronavirus now now that being said Dakota Meyer he's slinging the cure
the cure I did you see what he posted he posted a little bit of jocco discipline go
dack savage flavor and he's like hey it's me Dakota Meyer I haven't got coronavirus yet
why because I drink discipline go and destroy next question see else thinking that to
let's face it as a joke so you know the uh uh killer soap right activated charcoal whatever
so I'm using killer soap I'm taking cold war joint warfare super-cryo oil discipline every single day
with you know occasional mulch scenarios I don't think I've had the coronavirus if I have
an asymptomatic yeah coincidence or jocco if you want I'm just saying I'm just saying but you know
obviously I'm not gonna make that claim you know go as far as the Dakota Meyer is going on that
situation but nonetheless those are the facts the case unless like I said the facts of the case yes
I mentioned milk that is what we had this dessert in the form of a protein many flavors you know
to at this point it's like just choose your flavor it yeah you know much I mean with you very few
exceptions at this point yeah you're gonna go so yeah check that one out if you're a warrior
kid you can get some warrior kid milk yep same deal as your kids are home from school by the way right
now oh yeah they're not allowed to go to school and you could say oh Johnny you want some you want some
high fructose corn syrup in your milk which will literally kill you or do you want something
with protein in it that's gonna make you stronger smarger better yeah and that's what you want the
path and that actually is a real thing now days even more than than before because you know how
like you eat when you're bored you want a little tree you want a little you know you're not hungry you
just want to want a little you know little something where I can walk all day problem so I'll tell you
it's you have mok bars too don't you yes I do well I'm running very low big little thief
freaking kids yeah those are good men there's a real ridiculous yeah I have to say no now
oh you're just too much dude it's a miracle kind of a miracle to eat something that's that
good and that good for you that's kind of a miracle yeah and and we couldn't get anybody to make
him we had to we bought the piece we bought the peep we bought the factory to line we're making
of ourselves by the way you know it's a can do it quick enough big I saw someone post on Twitter that
you posted some about the master somebody did maybe it was the origin account and somebody posted
that the coronavirus is quarantining itself and the rest of our bodies to avoid contracting
jacco yeah there's a few funny ones yeah I'm not talking to you smack about it you know
why because that's like this curse right yeah that's like the class smack about it you're going to
get it you know what you down hard come from case and I do the big cover up yeah we like the
yeah really fun everything's fine post in pictures from like a workout I did six months ago
yeah that's true also jacco I keep by the way and work out and you can get all the stuff at
the vitamin shop right now if you want to if you're going out if you don't actually can you
you probably can't right now oh I have no idea but but vitamin shop I think is open and also
all these products are available on amazon dot com just kind of FYI yeah and origin main dot com
origin main spot it's faces yes also jacco is store and it's called jacco store you go to
jacco store dot com and this is where you can get more rash guards american made by the way 100%
we also have two shirts this blingy cool freedom good stand by to get something all these things
that are interesting for this yeah death just straight death core definitely core to the core
by the way yeah you need you know the things that are representative of the path that we're all
on by the way we're on it straight up on it at some point I'm going to see the graffiti with the little
death core flag some little tags yeah yeah that was do you remember there's somebody posted a picture
of graffiti in some city and it all it said was like at jalrogan at jordan b-peterson at jacco
when that was legit yeah my daughter does the the flag she best act she grabs my weightlifting
chalk you know the little bag of the chalk show grab it and show put it on you leave your chalk
all assembled into a block or she tried to yes in the bag very like so yeah you grab the
when it dissipates after it's like being used up then it collects as part of the bottom which is
you know what you're talking about right that's no I put the block in there and then break it into
small pieces yeah no I found where you grab the whole block and go like that's something set up yeah
it's just imagining echoes entire trunk full of weightlifting chalk yeah with the kids yeah
that's what it takes man it takes and the last yes jacco store dot com that's where you can get
this stuff to the path represent while you're on it to by the way also subscribe to this podcast
we also have another podcast now called the thread we also have another podcast called the grounded
we also have another podcast called the warrior kid podcast we also have Darrell has a podcast called
Margar made which I talked about a bunch just go just go listen to it listen to the opener and then just
well stand by because you'll be you'll be sucked in don't you talked about killer soap yes
you can get that from irish oaks ranch dot com we got a young kid a warrior kid making that from goat milk
quality to man it's quality that's the best soap ever yes goats yeah the best goats for sure
the strongest goats it's black the cleanest goats and yeah if you ever seen black soap before
no yeah so it's it's kind of a psychological thing you get the bar is black
is black because it's got activated charcoal which echo could tell you all about what that does
I'll tell you later so it's got activated so it's black but then you what you you wash with it and
you it still allows you to stay clean stay clean take on a whole new maybe right out
wash your hands everywhere oh yeah big time because it has like little what he called
exfoliant it's not quite it's not quite that's what I'm saying yeah it's not like abrasive but you
can almost feel it like if you're not paying attention you might not even feel it that much but
it's got the feeling it's got a feeling here's what's cool a normal bar is soap right
you pick it up it's slippery right this thing's not this thing's not yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
you gotta start selling this to prisons yeah that's a good idea you might have something there
there a cool for sure but yes Irish Oaks Ranch dot com soon if not right now we're gonna have it on
jockelstore dot com so hey men to go out there look for it get some boom also we do have a youtube
channel for the video version of this podcast a lot of people watching podcasts now rather than
just listening to them they watching them put them on the smart TV you've been whining Johnny on
the spotlight we too get in those youtube ones up as soon as possible to collect a good effort
yeah between you me go to the kid you know we're trying to you know try to make it up it's been
it's been nice yeah yeah agree and you know the accessibility people want to see what
Darrell Cooper looks like yeah you know had some guy you know it's been working out got a pump right
before hand respect you know actually you look different that I thought you look yeah
this you ever visual did never saw him before I saw like that one stupid ask picture you used
to me in the mask when I came on the podcast with Danielle yes you used one from my website
one that mask it's the only you go through the comments on youtube and it's like great podcast great podcast
look at that dumbass mask he's wearing good comment good I must say I agree with those comments
I'm 100% yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
what is that from I was going to a costume party right I don't have a lot of pictures of myself
yeah and the one you do have is you in a straight up costume so yeah so when you were
you were like a touch you know or something too is it like it was in a white suit with this mask on
like this I don't know like the eyes wide shut kind of thing yeah yeah okay it's perfect
I remember that yes so now that you're kind of mentioning that I kind of remembered what my
uh expectation it wasn't very like concrete but it was just kind of of you know what he called
a one ambiguous expectation and I'm thinking more along the lines of like a Chris Angel scenario
seeing him who's saying you know Chris Angel is right yeah yeah he does magical tricks yes but
the last you know I can do pretty if I need to yeah I believe it and the last you
would see what it looks like youtube channel boom a lot of other stuff on there it serves
what not a lot of value ball really it's far as youtube goes yeah correct you
you got it meant I on the grounded podcast whatever flippens attack comment I made about
you and your videos was pretty funny wait and I forget what it was but it was pretty good
yeah he was talking about things blowing up or whatever and I was like oh that's like
that was video or something oh no no we were talking about a fliction t-shirts with
with tanks and explosions and fire and I was like yeah kind of like echoes videos yeah yeah he
is really happy with the goes back to what happened to the well for that story
a long psychological warfare you can get that on iTunes I would at whatever it's me it's a little
psychological hitter for you help you get through those moments weakness flip side canvas to
code of mine make it some cool looking stuff for you bunch of books we either substrategy
intact to feel manual the warrior kid series how's your how's your nephew like the warrior
kid series my every little niece and nephew that I have loves it that is awesome including a
bunch of my friends as well like I didn't have to when every time I wanted to give them a copy
of the books they've already got them yeah and jack those are super hero man
I think that's not jacco man that's not jacco right there everyone likes Uncle Jacco
uh Mikey the Dragons too if you think if you're like I'd like to get the warrior kid series but
my kids only four cool Mikey the Dragons and then just when it goes freedom field manual
get yourself that and then the the first two books well I guess the first the leadership books
extreme ownership and the dichotomy leadership which I wrote with my brother late babon
we got echelon front leadership consultancy we sell problems through leadership going echelon front
dot com right now in the lock down where's starting to spin up or I should say we are
we are pouring more resources into our online training so I've been doing a lot of online live
Q&As which is really cool I mean I was a little you get a little bit worried because you know
you want everything to be of the highest quality and then look sometimes connections aren't there right
like and we got a new system and man it's like it's like I'm talking to people you know what
I mean it's like I'm in the room with people it's pretty it's pretty damn good so uh go to
eF online if you want to check that out eF online dot com master or lando canceled
master in phoenix Arizona September 16th and 17th Dallas Texas December 3rd and 4th
go to extremownership dot com if you want to come to those hey listen phoenix canceled and the way we
what we did with phoenix we gave people the option to cancel it or go to immediately just in roll
in either phoenix Arizona Dallas Texas you said phoenix canceled or lando's canceled okay
or lando's can did I say that like yes now I thought I thought phoenix was canceled too but for this
we knew of the same same but yes so or lando's canceled or lando is canceled but what we did is we
allowed people just to transfer their ticket to phoenix and then transfer their or Dallas so like
we're already at bigger numbers so everything always sells out there's only me two instead of three
that's you know another it's gonna sell out quick so check that out extremownership dot com and
and then we have eF overwatch and eF Legion and here's here's just a real straightforward message
right there's a lot of people losing their jobs right now and there's a lot of people getting
hired right now and there's just a massive transition in the job market if you are a veteran
if you are a veteran if you served go to eF Legion dot com and enroll yourself so that way
if your job changes we will you you can you can be looked at and people can find you
and pull you in and rehire you for a new job they're looking for military people we know you have
the discipline we know you have the the the wherewithal the get stuff done we know you are trainable
so if you're a vet go to eF Legion dot com and get your information in there and then companies
we we got a bunch of companies that are looking that's where they're if you're company and you want
to find good people and you need them right now go to eF Legion dot com and get yourself some
some experienced leaders and if you want to check out more of us more if you want to hear from more
from Darrell Cooper he's got like I said his podcast market made he's on Twitter Instagram and Facebook
at market made he's going to be on a podcast with me called the thread and on top of that if you
hadn't had enough of my grading slow-paced voice or you haven't heard enough of Ecos
high pitched meandering's then you can still find us on the interwebs on Twitter on Instagram
and on geodfice book Ecos at acochrals 9 at jockelwillink and thanks again Darrell for coming on
thank you much appreciated thanks for the effort that you put into your podcast and thanks for sharing
your story here and hopefully we can continue to get after it sharing people stories and helping people
see stories in the right light and do everyone else out there that's in uniform right now hold
the line around the world right now holding the line thank you for what you're doing out there
in uniform and to police and firefighters and law enforcement and paramedics and EMTs and dispatchers
and correctional officers and boarded patrol and secret service thanks for holding the line here
at home and on top of that right now to all the doctors and nurses and all the medical personnel
that are on the front lines here at home every day taking risk to fight illness
thank you for taking care of us when we need it most and to everyone else out there
the world is an uncertain place and sometimes the trajectory of your life
comes down to a little bit of chance and what I'm saying is don't take that chance very often
and stack the deck in your favor and the way that you do that is by going out there
taking control and getting after it and until next time this is Darrell Cooper and echo and
jaional control out